=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwtuc> - Text Utility Converter - B<rwcut> output to SiLK flows

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwtuc [--fields=FIELDS] [--column-separator=CHAR]
        [--output-path=PATH] [--bad-input-lines=FILEPATH]
        [--verbose] [--stop-on-error] [--no-titles] [--note-add=TEXT]
        [--note-file-add=FILE] [--compression-method=COMP_METHOD]
        [--site-config-file=FILENAME] [--saddress=IPADDR]
        [--daddress=IPADDR] [--sport=NUM] [--dport=NUM]
        [--protocol=NUM] [--packets=NUM] [--bytes=NUM]
        [--flags-all=TCPFLAGS] [--stime=TIME] [--duration=NUM]
        [--etime=TIME] [--sensor=SID] [--input-index=NUM]
        [--output-index=NUM] [--next-hop-ip=IPADDR]
        [--flags-initial=TCPFLAGS] [--flags-session=TCPFLAGS]
        [--attributes=ATTR] [--application=NUM] [--class=NAME]
        [--type=NAME] [--stime+msec=TIME] [--etime+msec=TIME]
        [--duration+msec=NUM] [--icmp-type=NUM] [--icmp-code=NUM]
        {[--xargs] | [--xargs=FILENAME] | [FILE [FILE...]]}

  rwtuc --help

  rwtuc --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwtuc> reads text files that have a format similar to that produced
by B<rwcut(1)> and attempts to create a SiLK Flow record for each line
of input.

The fields which make up a single record should be separated by the
pipe character ('B<|>'); use the B<--column-separator> switch to
change this delimiter.  Note that the space character does not work as
delimiter since several fields (e.g., time, TCP-flags) may contain
embedded spaces.

The fields to be read from each line may be specified with the
B<--fields> switch; if the switch is not provided, B<rwtuc> treats the
first line as a title and attempts to determine the fields from the
title strings.

When B<--fields> is specified, B<rwtuc> still checks whether the first
line contains title strings, and B<rwtuc> skips the line if it
determines it does.  Specify the B<--no-titles> switch to force
B<rwtuc> to treat the first line as field values to be parsed.

Command line switches exist which force a field to have a fixed value.
These switches cause B<rwtuc> to override the value read from the
input file (if any) for those fields.  See the L</Fixed Values>
section below for details.

B<rwtuc> reads the textual input from the files named on the command
line or from the standard input when no file names are specified, when
B<--xargs> is not present, and when the standard input is not a
terminal.  To read the standard input in addition to the named files
or to force B<rwfileinfo> to read input from a terminal, use C<-> or
C<stdin> as a file name.  When the B<--xargs> switch is provided,
B<rwtuc> reads the names of the files to process from the named text
file or from the standard input if no file name argument is provided
to the switch.  The input to B<--xargs> must contain one file name per
line.

When the B<--output-path> switch is not provided, output is sent to
the standard output when it is not connected to a terminal.

By default, lines that cannot be parsed are silently ignored (unless
B<rwtuc> is attempting to determine the fields from the title line).
When the B<--verbose> switch is specified, problems parsing an input
line are reported to the standard error, and B<rwtuc>
continues to process the input.  The B<--stop-on-error> switch is
similar to the B<--verbose> switch, except processing stops after the
first error.  Input lines that cause parse errors may be copied to
another output stream with the B<--bad-input-lines> switch.  Each bad
line has the source file name and line number prepended to it,
separated from each other and the source line by colons ('B<:>').

=head2 Field Constraints

Due to the way SiLK Flow records are stored, certain field
combinations cannot be supported, certain fields must appear together,
and some fields may only be used on certain occasions:

=over 4

=item *

Only two of the three time-related values (start time, duration, end
time) may be specified.  When all three are specified, the end time is
ignored.  This affects the C<sTime,9>, C<duration,10>, and C<eTime,11>
fields and the B<--stime>, B<--duration>, and B<--etime> switches.

=item *

Both ICMP type and ICMP code must be present when one is present.
These may be set by a combination of the C<iType> and C<iCode> fields
and the B<--icmp-type> and B<--icmp-code> switches.  These values are
ignored unless either the protocol is ICMP (1) or the record contains
IPv6 addresses and the protocol is ICMPv6 (58).  The ICMP type and
code are encoded in the destination port field (C<dPort,4> or
B<--dport>), and they overwrite the port value for ICMP and ICMPv6
flow records.

=item *

Both initial TCP flags and session TCP flags must be present when one
is present.  These may be set by a combination of the
C<initialFlags,26> and C<sessionFlags,27> fields and the
B<--flags-initial> and B<--flags-session> switches.  These fields are
set to 0 for non-TCP flow records.  When either field has a non-zero
value, any value in the (ALL) TCP flags field (C<flags,8> or
B<--flags-all>) is overwritten for TCP flow records.

=item *

If the B<silk.conf(5)> file defines more than one class, both class
and type must be present for the values to have any affect on the SiLK
flow record.  These may be set by a combination of the C<class> and
C<type> fields and the B<--class> and B<--type> switches.  If
F<silk.conf> defines a single class, that class is used by default.
The class and type must map to a valid pair; use B<rwsiteinfo
--fields=class,type> to see the list of valid class/type pairs for
your site (cf. B<rwsiteinfo(1)>).

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or B<--arg> I<param>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=over 4

=item B<--fields>=I<FIELDS>

I<FIELDS> contains the list of fields (columns) to parse.  I<FIELDS>
is a comma separated list of field-names, field-integers, and ranges
of field-integers; a range is specified by separating the start and
end of the range with a hyphen (B<->).  Field-names are case
insensitive.  A field name may not be specified more than once.  (As
of SiLK 3.15.0, C<ignore> may appear multiple times, allowing multiple
input fields to be ignored.)

A field is ignored when its name corresponds to a fixed value switch
(e.g. B<--protocol>) given on the command line (see L</Fixed Values>).

The field names and their descriptions are:

=over 4

=item ignore

a field that B<rwtuc> is to skip

=item sIP,1

source IP address in the canonical form: dotted-quad for IPv4 or
hex-encoded for IPv6 (when SiLK has been compiled with IPv6 support).
Integers from 0 to 4294967295 are treated as IPv4 addresses.

=item dIP,2

destination IP address in the same format as C<sIP,1>

=item sPort,3

source port as an integer from 0 to 65535 inclusive

=item dPort,4

destination port as an integer from 0 to 65535 inclusive (cf.
L</Field Constraints>)

=item protocol,5

IP protocol as an integer from 0 to 255 inclusive

=item packets,pkts,6

packet count as an integer from 1 to 4294967295 inclusive

=item bytes,7

byte count as an integer from 1 to 4294967295 inclusive

=item flags,8

bit-wise OR of TCP flags over all packets in the flow; the string may
contain C<F>, C<S>, C<R>, C<P>, C<A>, C<U>, C<E>, C<C> in upper- or
lowercase (cf. L</Field Constraints>)

=item sTime,9

starting time of the flow, in the form
C<YYYY/MM/DD[:hh[:mm[:ss[.sss]]]]>.  The letter C<T> may be used in
place of C<:> to separate the day and hour fields.  A floating point
value between 536870912 and 4294967295 is also allowed and is treated
as seconds since the UNIX epoch.

=item duration,10

duration of flow as a floating point value from 0.0 to 4294967.295

=item eTime,11

end time of flow in the same form as C<sTime,9> (cf.
L</Field Constraints>)

=item sensor,12

router sensor name or ID as given in F<silk.conf> (cf.
B<silk.conf(5)>)

=item class

class of router at collection point as given in F<silk.conf> (cf.
L</Field Constraints>)

=item type

type of router at collection point as given in F<silk.conf>
(cf. L</Field Constraints>)

=item in,13

router SNMP input interface or vlanId; an integer from 0 to 65535

=item out,14

router SNMP output interface or postVlanId; an integer from 0 to 65535

=item nhIP,15

router next hop IP address in the same format as C<sIP,1>

=item initialFlags,26

TCP flags on first packet in the flow; same form as the C<flags,8>
field (cf. L</Field Constraints>)

=item sessionFlags,27

bit-wise OR of TCP flags on the second through final packet in the
flow; same form as the C<flags,8> field (cf. L</Field Constraints>)

=item attribute,28

flow attributes set by the flow generator:

=over 4

=item C<S>

all the packets in this flow record are exactly the same size

=item C<F>

flow generator saw additional packets in this flow following a packet
with a FIN flag (excluding ACK packets)

=item C<T>

flow generator prematurely created a record for a long-running
connection due to a timeout.  (When the flow generator B<yaf(1)> is
run with the B<--silk> switch, it prematurely creates a flow and
mark it with C<T> if the byte count of the flow cannot be stored in a
32-bit value.)

=item C<C>

flow generator created this flow as a continuation of long-running
connection, where the previous flow for this connection met a timeout
(or a byte threshold in the case of B<yaf>).

=back

Consider a long-running ssh session that exceeds the flow generator's
I<active> timeout.  (This is the active timeout since the flow
generator creates a flow for a connection that still has activity).
The flow generator will create multiple flow records for this ssh
session, each spanning some portion of the total session.  The first
flow record will be marked with a C<T> indicating that it hit the
timeout.  The second through next-to-last records will be marked with
C<TC> indicating that this flow both timed out and is a continuation
of a flow that timed out.  The final flow will be marked with a C<C>,
indicating that it was created as a continuation of an active flow.

=item application,29

guess as to the content of the flow, as an integer from 0 to 65535.  Some
software that generates flow records from packet data, such as B<yaf>,
will inspect the contents of the packets that make up a flow and use
traffic signatures to label the content of the flow.  SiLK calls this
label the I<application>; B<yaf> refers to it as the I<appLabel>.  The
application is the port number that is traditionally used for that
type of traffic (see the F</etc/services> file on most UNIX systems).
For example, traffic that the flow generator recognizes as FTP will
have a value of 21, even if that traffic is being routed through the
standard HTTP/web S<port (80)>.

=item iType

ICMP type as an integer from 0 to 255 inclusive (cf.
L</Field Constraints>)

=item iCode

ICMP code as an integer from 0 to 255 inclusive (cf.
L</Field Constraints>)

=back

=item B<--column-separator>=I<CHAR>

Use the character I<CHAR> as the delimiter between columns (fields) in
the input.  The default column separator is the vertical pipe
('C<|>').  B<rwtuc> normally ignores whitespace (space and tab) around
the column separator; however, using space or tab as the separator
causes I<each> space or tab character to be treated as a field
delimiter.  The newline character is not a valid delimiter character
since it is used to denote records.

=item B<--output-path>=I<PATH>

Write the binary SiLK Flow records to I<PATH>, where I<PATH> is a
filename, a named pipe, the keyword C<stderr> to write the output to
the standard error, or the keyword C<stdout> or C<-> to write the
output to the standard output.  If I<PATH> names an existing file,
B<rwtuc> exits with an error unless the SILK_CLOBBER environment
variable is set, in which case I<PATH> is overwritten.  When I<PATH>
ends in C<.gz>, the output is compressed using the library associated
with B<gzip(1)>.  If this switch is not given, the output is written
to the standard output.  Attempting to write the binary output to a
terminal causes B<rwtuc> to exit with an error.

=item B<--bad-input-lines>=I<FILEPATH>

Copy any lines which could not be parsed to I<FILEPATH>.  The strings
C<stdout> and C<stderr> may be used for the standard output and
standard error, respectively.  Each bad line is prepended by the
source input file, a colon, the line number, and a colon.  On exit,
B<rwtuc> removes I<FILEPATH> if all input lines were successfully
parsed.

=item B<--verbose>

When an input line fails to parse, print a message to the standard
error describing the problem.  When this switch is not specified,
parsing failures are not reported.  B<rwtuc> continues to process the
input after printing the message.  To stop processing when a parsing
error occurs, use B<--stop-on-error>.

=item B<--stop-on-error>

When an input line fails to parse, print a message to the standard
error describing the problem and exit the program.  When this occurs,
the output file contains any records successfully created prior to
reading the bad input line.  The default behavior of B<rwtuc> is to
silently ignore parsing errors.  To report parsing errors and continue
processing the input, use B<--verbose>.

=item B<--no-titles>

Parse the first line of the input as field values.  Normally when the
B<--fields> switch is specified, B<rwtuc> examines the first line to
determine if the line contains the names (titles) of fields and skips
the line if it does.  B<rwtuc> exits with an error when B<--no-titles>
is given but B<--fields> is not.

=item B<--note-add>=I<TEXT>

Add the specified I<TEXT> to the header of the output file as an
annotation.  This switch may be repeated to add multiple annotations
to a file.  To view the annotations, use the B<rwfileinfo(1)> tool.

=item B<--note-file-add>=I<FILENAME>

Open I<FILENAME> and add the contents of that file to the header of
the output file as an annotation.    This switch may be repeated to
add multiple annotations.  Currently the application makes no effort
to ensure that I<FILENAME> contains text; be careful that you do not
attempt to add a SiLK data file as an annotation.

=item B<--compression-method>=I<COMP_METHOD>

Specify the compression library to use when writing output files.  If
this switch is not given, the value in the SILK_COMPRESSION_METHOD
environment variable is used if the value names an available
compression method.  When no compression method is specified,
output to the standard output or to named pipes is not compressed, and
output to files is compressed using the default chosen when SiLK was
compiled.  The valid values for I<COMP_METHOD> are determined by which
external libraries were found when SiLK was compiled.  To see the
available compression methods and the default method, use the
B<--help> or B<--version> switch.  SiLK can support the following
I<COMP_METHOD> values when the required libraries are available.

=over 4

=item none

Do not compress the output using an external library.

=item zlib

Use the B<zlib(3)> library for compressing the output, and always
compress the output regardless of the destination.  Using zlib
produces the smallest output files at the cost of speed.

=item lzo1x

Use the I<lzo1x> algorithm from the LZO real time compression library
for compression, and always compress the output regardless of the
destination.  This compression provides good compression with less
memory and CPU overhead.

=item snappy

Use the I<snappy> library for compression, and always compress the
output regardless of the destination.  This compression provides good
compression with less memory and CPU overhead.  I<Since SiLK 3.13.0.>

=item best

Use lzo1x if available, otherwise use snappy if available, otherwise
use zlib if available.  Only compress the output when writing to a
file.

=back

=item B<--site-config-file>=I<FILENAME>

Read the SiLK site configuration from the named file I<FILENAME>.
When this switch is not provided, B<rwtuc> searches for the site
configuration file in the locations specified in the L</FILES>
section.

=item B<--xargs>

=item B<--xargs>=I<FILENAME>

Read the names of the input files from I<FILENAME> or from the
standard input if I<FILENAME> is not provided.  The input is expected
to have one filename per line.  B<rwtuc> opens each named file in turn
and reads text from it as if the filenames had been listed on the
command line.  I<Since S<SiLK 3.15.0>.>

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head2 Fixed Values

The following switches may be used to set fields to fixed values.  A
value specified using one these switches overrides the field when it
appears in the input, causing that column of input to be completely
ignored.

=over 4

=item B<--saddress>=I<IPADDR>

Set the source address field to I<IPADDR> for all records.  I<IPADDR>
may be in canonical notation or an unsigned integer.

=item B<--daddress>=I<IPADDR>

Set the destination address field to I<IPADDR> for all records.
I<IPADDR> may be in canonical notation or an unsigned integer.

=item B<--sport>=I<NUM>

Set the source port field to I<NUM> for all records; a value between 0
and 65535.

=item B<--dport>=I<NUM>

Set the destination port field to I<NUM> for all records; a value
between 0 and 65535. (cf. L</Field Constraints>)

=item B<--protocol>=I<NUM>

Set the protocol field to I<NUM> for all records; a value between 0
and 255.

=item B<--packets>=I<NUM>

Set the packets field to I<NUM> for all records; the value must be
non-zero.

=item B<--bytes>=I<NUM>

Set the bytes field to I<NUM> for all records; the value must be
non-zero.

=item B<--flags-all>=I<TCPFLAGS>

Set the TCP flags field to I<TCPFLAGS> for all records. (cf.
L</Field Constraints>)

=item B<--stime>=I<TIME>

Set the start time field to I<TIME> for all records.

=item B<--duration>=I<NUM>

Set the duration field to I<NUM> for all records.

=item B<--etime>=I<TIME>

Set the end time field to I<TIME> for all records. (cf.
L</Field Constraints>)

=item B<--sensor>=I<SID>

Set the sensor field to I<SID> for all records.  This may either be a
sensor name or sensor ID.

=item B<--input-index>=I<NUM>

Set the SNMP input index field to I<NUM> for all records; a value
between 0 and 65535.

=item B<--output-index>=I<NUM>

Set the SNMP output index field to I<NUM> for all records; a value
between 0 and 65535.

=item B<--next-hop-ip>=I<IPADDR>

Set the next-hop-ip field to I<IPADDR> for all records.  I<IPADDR> may
be in canonical notation or an unsigned integer.

=item B<--flags-initial>=I<TCPFLAGS>

Set the initial TCP flags field to I<TCPFLAGS> for all
records. (cf. L</Field Constraints>)

=item B<--flags-session>=I<TCPFLAGS>

Set the session TCP flags field to I<TCPFLAGS> for all
records. (cf. L</Field Constraints>)

=item B<--attributes>=I<ATTR>

Set the attributes field to I<ATTR> for all records.

=item B<--application>=I<NUM>

Set the application field to I<NUM> for all records; a value between 0
and 65535.

=item B<--class>=I<NAME>

Set the class field to I<NAME> for all records. (cf.
L</Field Constraints>)

=item B<--type>=I<NAME>

Set the type field to I<NAME> for all records. (cf.
L</Field Constraints>)

=item B<--icmp-type>=I<NUM>

Set the ICMP type field to I<NUM> for all ICMP or ICMPv6 flow records;
a value between 0 and 255. (cf. L</Field Constraints>)

=item B<--icmp-code>=I<NUM>

Set the ICMP code field to I<NUM> for all ICMP or ICMPv6 flow records;
a value between 0 and 255. (cf. L</Field Constraints>)

=item B<--stime+msec>=I<TIME>

An alias for B<--stime>.  This switch is deprecated as of SiLK 3.6.0,
and it will be removed in the SiLK 4.0 release.

=item B<--etime+msec>=I<TIME>

An alias for B<--etime>.  This switch is deprecated as of SiLK 3.6.0,
and it will be removed in the SiLK 4.0 release.

=item B<--duration+msec>=I<NUM>

An alias for B<--duration>.  This is is deprecated as of SiLK 3.6.0,
and it will be removed in the SiLK 4.0 release.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following examples, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

Using B<rwtuc> to parse the output of B<rwcut(1)> should produce the
same output:

 $ rwcut data.rw > cut.txt
 $ md5 < cut.txt
 7e3d693cd2cba2510803935274e1debd
 $ rwtuc < cut.txt | rwcut | md5
 7e3d693cd2cba2510803935274e1debd

To swap the source IP and port with the destination IP and port in
F<flows.rw> and save the result in F<reverse.rw>:

 $ rwcut --fields=dip,dport,sip,sport,5-15,20-29 flows.rw   \
   | rwtuc --fields=1-15,20-29 --output-path=reverse.rw

B<rwtuc> may be used to obfuscate the flow data in F<myflows.rw> to
produce F<obflows.rw>.  Pipe the output from B<rwcut> into a script
that manipulates the IP addresses, then pipe that into B<rwtuc>.
Using the B<sed(1)> script in F<priv.sed>, the invocation is:

 $ rwcut --fields=1-10,13-15,26-29 myflows.rw               \
   | sed -f priv.sed                                        \
   | rwtuc --sensor=1 > obflows.rw

If the first line of input appears to contain titles, B<rwtuc>
ignores it.  In the first invocation below, B<rwtuc> treats C<SP> as
an abbreviation for C<sPort> and ignores the line.  Use the
B<--no-titles> switch to force B<rwtuc> to parse the line:

 $ echo 'SP' | rwtuc --fields=flags | rwcut --fields=flags
    flags|
 $
 $ echo 'SP' | rwtuc --fields=flags --no-titles | rwcut --fields=flags
    flags|
  S P    |
 $

By default, B<rwtuc> silently ignores lines that it cannot parse.  Use
the B<--verbose> flag to see error messages:

 $ echo sport | rwtuc --fields=flags --no-titles --verbose >/dev/null
 rwtuc: stdin:1: Invalid flags 'sport': Unexpected character 'o'


=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_CLOBBER

The SiLK tools normally refuse to overwrite existing files.  Setting
SILK_CLOBBER to a non-empty value removes this restriction.

=item SILK_COMPRESSION_METHOD

This environment variable is used as the value for
B<--compression-method> when that switch is not provided.  I<Since
SiLK 3.13.0.>

=item SILK_CONFIG_FILE

This environment variable is used as the value for the
B<--site-config-file> when that switch is not provided.

=item SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR

This environment variable specifies the root directory of data
repository.  As described in the L</FILES> section, B<rwtuc> may
use this environment variable when searching for the SiLK site
configuration file.

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the install tree.  When
searching for configuration files, B<rwtuc> may use this environment
variable.  See the L</FILES> section for details.

=item TZ

When a SiLK installation is built to use the local timezone (to
determine if this is the case, check the C<Timezone support> value in
the output from B<rwtuc --version>), the value of the TZ environment
variable determines the timezone in which B<rwtuc> parses timestamps.
If the TZ environment variable is not set, the default timezone is
used.  Setting TZ to 0 or the empty string causes timestamps to be
parsed as UTC.  The value of the TZ environment variable is ignored
when the SiLK installation uses utc.  For system information on the TZ
variable, see B<tzset(3)> or B<environ(7)>.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<${SILK_CONFIG_FILE}>

=item F<${SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR}/silk.conf>

=item F<@SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR@/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk.conf>

Possible locations for the SiLK site configuration file which are
checked when the B<--site-config-file> switch is not provided.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwcut(1)>, B<rwfileinfo(1)>, B<rwsiteinfo(1)>, B<silk.conf(5)>,
B<silk(7)>, B<yaf(1)>, B<gzip(1)>, B<sed(1)>, B<zlib(3)>, B<tzset(3)>,
B<environ(7)>

=cut

$SiLK: rwtuc.pod 94bbee0e68ad 2017-05-23 18:39:19Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
