=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwaddrcount> - count activity by IPv4 address

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwaddrcount {--print-recs | --print-ips | --print-stat}
        [--use-dest] [--min-bytes=BYTEMIN] [--max-bytes=BYTEMAX]
        [--min-records=RECMIN] [--max-records=RECMAX]
        [--min-packets=PACKMIN] [--max-packets=PACKMAX]
        [--set-file=PATHNAME] [--sort-ips] [--timestamp-format=FORMAT]
        [--ip-format=FORMAT] [--integer-ips] [--zero-pad-ips]
        [--no-titles] [--no-columns] [--column-separator=CHAR]
        [--no-final-delimiter] [{--delimited | --delimited=CHAR}]
        [--print-filenames] [--copy-input=PATH] [--output-path=PATH]
        [--pager=PAGER_PROG] [--site-config-file=FILENAME]
        [{--legacy-timestamps | --legacy-timestamps=NUM}]
        {[--xargs] | [--xargs=FILENAME] | [FILE [FILE ...]]}

  rwaddrcount --help

  rwaddrcount --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwaddrcount> reads SiLK Flow records, sums the byte-, packet-, and
record-counts on those records by individual source or destination IP
address and maintains the time window during which that IP address was
active.  At the end of the count operation, the results per IP address
are displayed when the B<--print-recs> switch is given.
B<rwaddrcount> includes facilities for displaying only those IP
address whose byte-, packet- or flow-counts are between specified
minima and maxima.

B<rwaddrcount> does not support IPv6 addresses.  To generate output
for IPv6 records, use the B<rwuniq(1)> tool:

 rwuniq --fields=sip --values=bytes,packets,records,stime,etime

B<rwaddrcount> reads SiLK Flow records from the files named on the
command line or from the standard input when no file names are
specified and B<--xargs> is not present.  To read the standard input
in addition to the named files, use C<-> or C<stdin> as a file name.
If an input file name ends in C<.gz>, the file is uncompressed as it
is read.  When the B<--xargs> switch is provided, B<rwaddrcount> reads
the names of the files to process from the named text file or from the
standard input if no file name argument is provided to the switch.
The input to B<--xargs> must contain one file name per line.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or S<B<--arg> I<param>>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

For the application to operate, one of the three B<--print> options
must be chosen.

=over 4

=item B<--print-recs>

Print one row for each bin that meets the minima/maxima criteria.
Each bin contains the IP address, number of bytes, number of packets,
number of flow records, earliest start time, and latest end time.

=item B<--print-ips>

Print a single column containing the IP addresses for each bin that
meets the minima/maxima criteria.

=item B<--print-stat>

Print a one or two line summary (plus a title line) that summarizes
the bins.  The first line is a summary across B<all> bins, and it
contains the number of unique IP addresses and the sums of the bytes,
packets, and flow records.  The second line is printed only when one
or more minima or maxima are specified.  This second line contains the
same columns as first, and its values are the sums across those bins
that meet the criteria.

=item B<--use-dest>

Count by destination IP address in the filter record rather than
source IP.

=item B<--min-bytes>=I<BYTEMIN>

Filtering criterion; for the final output (stats or printing), only
include count records where the total number of bytes exceeds BYTEMIN

=item B<--min-packets>=I<PACKMIN>

Filtering criterion; for the final output (stats or printing), only
include count records where the total number of packets exceeds
PACKMIN

=item B<--min-records>=I<RECMIN>

Filtering criterion; for the final output (stats or printing), only
include count records where the total number of filter records
contributing to that count record exceeds RECMIN.

=item B<--max-bytes>=I<BYTEMAX>

Filtering criterion; for the final output (stats or printing), only
include count records where the total number of bytes is less than
BYTEMAX.

=item B<--max-packets>=I<PACKMAX>

Filtering criterion; for the final output (stats or printing), only
include count records where the total number of packets is less than
PACKMAX.

=item B<--max-records>=I<RECMAX>

Filtering criterion; for the final output (stats or printing), only
include count records which at most RECMAX filter records contributed
to.

=item B<--set-file>=I<PATHNAME>

Write the IPs into the B<rwset(1)>-style binary IP-set file named
PATHNAME.  Use B<rwsetcat(1)> to see the contents of this file.

=item B<--timestamp-format>=I<FORMAT>

Specify the format and/or timezone to use when printing timestamps.
When this switch is not specified, the SILK_TIMESTAMP_FORMAT
environment variable is checked for a default format and/or timezone.
If it is empty or contains invalid values, timestamps are printed in
the default format, and the timezone is UTC unless SiLK was compiled
with local timezone support.  I<FORMAT> is a comma-separated list of a
format and/or a timezone.  The format is one of:

=over 4

=item default

Print the timestamps as I<YYYY>/I<MM>/I<DD>TI<hh>:I<mm>:I<ss>

=item iso

Print the timestamps as I<YYYY>-I<MM>-I<DD> I<hh>:I<mm>:I<ss>

=item m/d/y

Print the timestamps as I<MM>/I<DD>/I<YYYY> I<hh>:I<mm>:I<ss>

=item epoch

Print the timestamps as the number of seconds since 00:00:00 UTC on
1970-01-01.

=back

When a timezone is specified, it is used regardless of the default
timezone support compiled into SiLK.  The timezone is one of:

=over 4

=item utc

Use Coordinated Universal Time to print timestamps.

=item local

Use the TZ environment variable or the local timezone.

=back

=item B<--ip-format>=I<FORMAT>

For the B<--print-recs> and B<--print-ips> output formats, specify how
IP addresses are printed, where I<FORMAT> is a comma-separated list of
the arguments described below.  When this switch is not specified, the
SILK_IP_FORMAT environment variable is checked for a value and that
format is used if it is valid.  The default I<FORMAT> is C<canonical>.
I<Since SiLK 3.7.0.>

=over 4

=item canonical

Print IP addresses in the canonical format: dot-separated decimal for
IPv4 (C<192.0.2.1>).

=item no-mixed

Print IP addresses in the canonical format (C<192.0.2.1>).  Prevent
use of the mixed IPv4-IPv6 representation when C<map-v4> is also
included in I<FORMAT>.  For example, use C<::ffff:c000:201> instead of
C<::ffff:192.0.2.1>.  I<Since SiLK 3.17.0>.

=item decimal

Print IP addresses as integers in decimal format.  For example, print
C<192.0.2.1> and C<::ffff:192.0.2.1> as C<3221225985> and
C<281473902969345>, respectively.

=item hexadecimal

Print IP addresses as integers in hexadecimal format.  For example,
print C<192.0.2.1> and C<::ffff:192.0.2.1> as C<c00000201> and
C<ffffc00000201>, respectively.

=item zero-padded

Make all IP address strings contain the same number of characters by
padding numbers with leading zeros.  For example, print C<192.0.2.1>
as C<192.000.002.001>.  For IPv6 addresses, this setting implies
C<no-mixed>, so that C<::ffff:192.0.2.1> is printed as
C<0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:ffff:c000:0201>.  As of SiLK 3.17.0, may be
combined with any of the above, including C<decimal> and
C<hexadecimal>.

=back

The following arguments modify certain IP addresses prior to printing.
These arguments may be combined with the above formats.

=over 4

=item map-v4

Change addresses to IPv4-mapped IPv6 addresses (addresses in the
::ffff:0:0/96 netblock) prior to formatting.  I<Since SiLK 3.17.0>.

=item unmap-v6

Do nothing (B<rwaddrcount> does not support IPv6 addresses as the
key).  I<Since SiLK 3.17.0>.

=back

The following argument is also available:

=over 4

=item force-ipv6

Set I<FORMAT> to C<map-v4>,C<no-mixed>.

=back

=item B<--integer-ips>

Print IP addresses as integers.  This switch is equivalent to
B<--ip-format=decimal>, it is deprecated as of SiLK 3.7.0, and it will
be removed in the SiLK 4.0 release.

=item B<--zero-pad-ips>

Print IP addresses as fully-expanded, zero-padded values in the
canonical format.  This switch is equivalent to
B<--ip-format=zero-padded>, it is deprecated as of SiLK 3.7.0, and it
will be removed in the SiLK 4.0 release

=item B<--sort-ips>

For the B<--print-recs> and B<--print-ips> output formats, the results
are presented sorted by IP address.

=item B<--no-titles>

Turn off column titles.  By default, titles are printed.

=item B<--no-columns>

Disable fixed-width columnar output.

=item B<--column-separator>=I<C>

Use specified character between columns and after the final column.
When this switch is not specified, the default of 'B<|>' is used.

=item B<--no-final-delimiter>

Do not print the column separator after the final column.  Normally a
delimiter is printed.

=item B<--delimited>

=item B<--delimited>=I<C>

Run as if B<--no-columns> B<--no-final-delimiter> B<--column-sep>=I<C>
had been specified.  That is, disable fixed-width columnar output; if
character I<C> is provided, it is used as the delimiter between
columns instead of the default 'B<|>'.

=item B<--print-filenames>

Print to the standard error the names of input files as they are
opened.

=item B<--copy-input>=I<PATH>

Copy all binary SiLK Flow records read as input to the specified file
or named pipe.  I<PATH> may be C<stdout> or C<-> to write flows to the
standard output as long as the B<--output-path> switch is specified
to redirect B<rwaddrcount>'s textual output to a different location.

=item B<--output-path>=I<PATH>

Write the textual output to I<PATH>, where I<PATH> is a filename, a
named pipe, the keyword C<stderr> to write the output to the standard
error, or the keyword C<stdout> or C<-> to write the output to the
standard output (and bypass the paging program).  If I<PATH> names an
existing file, B<rwaddrcount> exits with an error unless the
SILK_CLOBBER environment variable is set, in which case I<PATH> is
overwritten.  If this switch is not given, the output is either sent
to the pager or written to the standard output.

=item B<--pager>=I<PAGER_PROG>

When output is to a terminal, invoke the program I<PAGER_PROG> to view
the output one screen full at a time.  This switch overrides the
SILK_PAGER environment variable, which in turn overrides the PAGER
variable.  If the B<--output-path> switch is given or if value of the
pager is determined to be the empty string, no paging is performed and
all output is written to the terminal.

=item B<--site-config-file>=I<FILENAME>

Read the SiLK site configuration from the named file I<FILENAME>.
When this switch is not provided, B<rwaddrcount> searches for the site
configuration file in the locations specified in the L</FILES>
section.

=item B<--legacy-timestamps>

=item B<--legacy-timestamps>=I<NUM>

When I<NUM> is not specified or is 1, this switch is equivalent to
B<--timestamp-format=m/d/y>.  Otherwise, the switch has no effect.
This switch is deprecated as of SiLK 3.0.0, and it will be removed in
the SiLK 4.0 release.

=item B<--xargs>

=item B<--xargs>=I<FILENAME>

Read the names of the input files from I<FILENAME> or from the
standard input if I<FILENAME> is not provided.  The input is expected
to have one filename per line.  B<rwaddrcount> opens each named file
in turn and reads records from it as if the filenames had been listed
on the command line.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head2 Deprecated Switches

The following switches are deprecated.  They will be removed in
SiLK 4.0.

=over 4

=item B<--byte-min>=I<BYTEMIN>

Deprecated alias for B<--min-bytes>.

=item B<--packet-min>=I<PACKMIN>

Deprecated alias for B<--min-packets>.

=item B<--rec-min>=I<RECMIN>

Deprecated alias for B<--min-records>.

=item B<--byte-max>=I<BYTEMAX>

Deprecated alias for B<--max-bytes>.

=item B<--packet-max>=I<PACKMAX>

Deprecated alias for B<--max-packets>.

=item B<--rec-max>=I<RECMAX>

Deprecated alias for B<--max-records>.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following examples, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

To print a list of source IP addresses that appeared in exactly one
TCP record during the first 12 hours of 2003-Sep-01, use:

 $ rwfilter --start-date=2003/09/01:00 --end-date=2003/09/01:11     \
        --proto=6 --pass=stdout                                     \
   | rwaddrcount --max-records=1 --print-ips

In general, to print out record information, use B<rwaddrcount>
with B<--print-recs>

 $ rwfilter --start-date=2003/01/17:00 --end-date=2003/01/17:23     \
        --proto=6 --pass=stdout                                     \
   | rwaddrcount --print-rec --no-title | head -3

  10.10.10.1|  65792| 147|  21| 2003/01/17T00:19:01| 2003/01/17T02:00:13|
  10.10.10.2| 110744|  89|   7| 2003/01/17T01:21:42| 2003/01/17T01:39:21|
  10.10.10.3|    864|  18|   6| 2003/01/17T00:20:33| 2003/01/17T01:25:38|

=head2 Replacements for rwaddrcount

We note some overlapping features between B<rwaddrcount> and
B<rwuniq(1)>. There is often more than one way to perform the same
task in the SiLK tool set.

Here's a guide to replacing each of the outputs of B<rwaddrcount>:

The B<--print-recs> switch prints five pieces of information for each
source or destination address:

 $ rwaddrcount --print-recs data.rw
           sIP|Bytes|Packets|Records|         Start_Time|           End_Time|
    10.0.0.144| 1646|      4|      1|2007/05/09T18:01:41|2007/05/09T18:01:41|
 10.14.203.121|   40|      1|      1|2007/05/09T18:31:54|2007/05/09T18:31:54|
 10.14.203.122|   40|      1|      1|2007/05/09T18:32:43|2007/05/09T18:32:43|
    10.15.6.14|  539|      3|      3|2007/05/09T18:03:05|2007/05/09T18:08:07|
   12.0.101.22| 4365|     23|      2|2007/05/09T18:26:43|2007/05/09T18:43:46|

To do the same in B<rwuniq>, specify either C<sip> in B<--fields> and
the B<--values> shown here:

 $ rwuniq --fields=sip --values=bytes,packets,flows,stime,etime data.rw
           sIP|Bytes|Packets|Records|          min_sTime|          max_eTime|
    10.0.0.144| 1646|      4|      1|2007/05/09T18:01:41|2007/05/09T18:01:41|
 10.14.203.121|   40|      1|      1|2007/05/09T18:31:54|2007/05/09T18:31:54|
 10.14.203.122|   40|      1|      1|2007/05/09T18:32:43|2007/05/09T18:32:43|
    10.15.6.14|  539|      3|      3|2007/05/09T18:03:05|2007/05/09T18:08:07|
   12.0.101.22| 4365|     23|      2|2007/05/09T18:26:43|2007/05/09T18:43:46|

When B<rwaddrcount> includes B<--use-dest>, change the B<--fields>
switch of B<rwuniq> to C<dip>.  Replace the B<--sort-ips> switch of
B<rwaddrcount> with B<--sort-output> in B<rwuniq>.

The B<--print-stat> switch in B<rwaddrcount> prints a one-line summary
of the data:

 $ rwaddrcount --print-stat data.rw
           |  sIP_Uniq|         Bytes|    Packets|   Records|
      Total|     57727|     948620676|    2026581|    382578|

This is difficult to produce with B<rwuniq>.  If there is a field that
you know is either empty or constant across all records (such as
C<nhip> or C<in>), you can use that as the key field in B<rwuniq>.

 $ rwuniq --fields=nhIP --values=distinct:sip,bytes,packets,flows data.rw
            nhIP|sIP-Distinct|        Bytes|   Packets|   Records|
         0.0.0.0|       57727|    948620676|   2026581|    382578|

Note that C<class> generally does not work since each type within a
class produces its own row:

 $ rwuniq --fields=class --values=distinct:sip,bytes,packets,flows data.rw
 class|sIP-Distinct|        Bytes|   Packets|   Records|
   all|        8674|    260143344|    964621|    151447|
   all|       55540|    688477332|   1061960|   6184399|

One trick is to use C<stime> as the key with a very large
B<--bin-time>:

 $ rwuniq --fields=stime --bin-time=2147483647             \
        --values=distinct:sip,bytes,packets,flows data.rw
               sTime|sIP-Distinct|        Bytes|   Packets|   Records|
 1970/01/01T00:00:00|       57727|    948620676|   2026581|    382578|

Finally, you can use separate invocations of B<rwfilter(1)>,
B<rwset(1)>, and B<rwsetcat(1)>:

 $ rwfilter --print-volume --all=stdout data.rw  \
   | rwset --sip=stdout                          \
   | rwsetcat --count-ips
      |      Recs|   Packets|        Bytes|     Files|
 Total|    382578|   2026581|    948620676|         1|
  Pass|    382578|   2026581|    948620676|          |
  Fail|         0|         0|            0|          |
 57727

B<rwaddrcount>'s B<--print-ips> switch prints the IP addresses as text:

 $ rwaddrcount --print-ips data.rw
             sIP
      10.0.0.144
   10.14.203.121
   10.14.203.122
      10.15.6.14
     12.0.101.22

A combination of B<rwset> and B<rwsetcat> is the best way to handle
this:

 $ rwset --sip-file=stdout data.rw | rwsetcat --print-ips
 10.0.0.144
 10.14.203.121
 10.14.203.122
 10.15.6.14
 12.0.101.22

Alternatively, use B<rwuniq> and the UNIX tool B<cut(1)> to only print
the first column:

 $ rwuniq --fields=sIP data.rw  \
   | cut -d '|' -f 1
             sIP
      10.0.0.144
   10.14.203.121
   10.14.203.122
      10.15.6.14
     12.0.101.22

B<rwaddrcount> allows you to restrict the output to bins that have a
certain minimum or maximum count of bytes, packets, or flows via
B<--min-bytes>, B<--max-bytes>, B<--min-packets>, B<--max-packets>,
B<--min-records>, and B<--max-records>:

 $ rwaddrcount --print-recs --min-byte=1024 --max-byte=2048 \
        --max-records=1 data.rw
           sIP|Bytes|Packets|Records|         Start_Time|           End_Time|
    10.0.0.144| 1646|      4|      1|2007/05/09T18:01:41|2007/05/09T18:01:41|
 10.14.203.121|   40|      1|      1|2007/05/09T18:31:54|2007/05/09T18:31:54|
 10.14.203.122|   40|      1|      1|2007/05/09T18:32:43|2007/05/09T18:32:43|

B<rwuniq> supports the same operations using the B<--bytes>,
B<--packets>, and B<--flows> switches, each of which allows you to
define a desired minimum and maximum value.

 $ rwuniq --fields=sip --values=bytes,packets,records,stime,etime \
        --bytes=1024-2048 --flows=1-1 data.rw
          sIP|Bytes|Packets|Records|          min_sTime|          max_eTime|
    10.0.0.144| 1646|      4|      1|2007/05/09T18:01:41|2007/05/09T18:01:41|
 10.14.203.121|   40|      1|      1|2007/05/09T18:31:54|2007/05/09T18:31:54|
 10.14.203.122|   40|      1|      1|2007/05/09T18:32:43|2007/05/09T18:32:43|


=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_IP_FORMAT

This environment variable is used as the value for B<--ip-format> when
that switch is not provided.  I<Since SiLK 3.11.0.>

=item SILK_TIMESTAMP_FORMAT

This environment variable is used as the value for
B<--timestamp-format> when that switch is not provided.  I<Since SiLK
3.11.0.>

=item SILK_PAGER

When set to a non-empty string, B<rwaddrcount> automatically invokes
this program to display its output a screen at a time.  If set to an
empty string, B<rwaddrcount> does not automatically page its output.

=item PAGER

When set and SILK_PAGER is not set, B<rwaddrcount> automatically
invokes this program to display its output a screen at a time.

=item SILK_CLOBBER

The SiLK tools normally refuse to overwrite existing files.  Setting
SILK_CLOBBER to a non-empty value removes this restriction.

=item SILK_CONFIG_FILE

This environment variable is used as the value for the
B<--site-config-file> when that switch is not provided.

=item SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR

This environment variable specifies the root directory of data
repository.  As described in the L</FILES> section, B<rwaddrcount> may
use this environment variable when searching for the SiLK site
configuration file.

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the install tree.  When
searching for configuration files, B<rwaddrcount> may use this
environment variable.  See the L</FILES> section for details.

=item TZ

When the argument to the B<--timestamp-format> switch includes
C<local> or when a SiLK installation is built to use the local
timezone, the value of the TZ environment variable determines the
timezone in which B<rwaddrcount> displays timestamps.  (If both of
those are false, the TZ environment variable is ignored.)  If the TZ
environment variable is not set, the machine's default timezone is
used.  Setting TZ to the empty string or 0 causes timestamps to be
displayed in UTC.  For system information on the TZ variable, see
B<tzset(3)> or B<environ(7)>.  (To determine if SiLK was built with
support for the local timezone, check the C<Timezone support> value in
the output of B<rwaddrcount --version>.)

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<${SILK_CONFIG_FILE}>

=item F<${SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR}/silk.conf>

=item F<@SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR@/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk.conf>

Possible locations for the SiLK site configuration file which are
checked when the B<--site-config-file> switch is not provided.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwset(1)>, B<rwsetcat(1)>, B<rwstats(1)>, B<rwtotal(1)>,
B<rwuniq(1)>, B<silk(7)>, B<tzset(3)>, B<environ(7)>

=head1 NOTES

B<rwaddrcount> only supports IPv4 addresses, and it will not be
modified to support IPv6 addresses.  To produce output similar to
B<rwaddrcount> for IPv6 addresses, use B<rwuniq(1)>:

 rwuniq --fields=sip --values=bytes,packets,records,stime,etime

When used in an IPv6 environment, B<rwaddrcount> converts IPv6 flow
records that contain addresses in the ::ffff:0:0/96 prefix to IPv4 and
processes them.  IPv6 records having addresses outside of that prefix
are ignored.

B<rwaddrcount> uses a fairly large hashtable to store data, but it is
likely that as the amount of data expands, the application will take
more time to process data.

Similar binning of records are produced by B<rwstats(1)>,
B<rwtotal(1)>, and B<rwuniq(1)>.

To generate a list of IP addresses without the volume information, use
B<rwset(1)>.

=cut

$SiLK: rwaddrcount.pod 051cadca977b 2019-04-16 18:12:18Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
