=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwipfix2silk> - Convert IPFIX records to SiLK Flow records

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwipfix2silk [--silk-output=PATH] [--print-statistics]
        [--interface-values={snmp | vlan}]
        [--log-destination={stdout | stderr | none | PATH}]
        [--log-flags=FLAGS] [--note-add=TEXT] [--note-file-add=FILE]
        [--compression-method=COMP_METHOD]
        {[--xargs] | [--xargs=FILENAME] | [IPFIXFILE [IPFIXFILE...]]}

  rwipfix2silk --help

  rwipfix2silk --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwipfix2silk> reads IPFIX (Internet Protocol Flow Information
eXport) records from files or from the standard input, converts the
records to the SiLK Flow format, and writes the SiLK records to the
path specified by B<--silk-output> or to the standard output when
stdout is not the terminal and B<--silk-output> is not provided.

B<rwipfix2silk> reads IPFIX records from the files named on the
command line or from the standard input when no file names are
specified and B<--xargs> is not present.  To read the standard input
in addition to the named files, use C<-> or C<stdin> as a file name.
When the B<--xargs> switch is provided, B<rwipfix2silk> reads the
names of the files to process from the named text file or from the
standard input if no file name argument is provided to the switch.
The input to B<--xargs> must contain one file name per line.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or B<--arg> I<param>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=over 4

=item B<--silk-output>=I<PATH>

Write the binary SiLK Flow records to I<PATH>, where I<PATH> is a
filename, a named pipe, the keyword C<stderr> to write the output to
the standard error, or the keyword C<stdout> or C<-> to write the
output to the standard output.  If I<PATH> names an existing file,
B<rwipfix2silk> exits with an error unless the SILK_CLOBBER
environment variable is set, in which case I<PATH> is overwritten.  If
this switch is not given, the output is written to the standard
output.  Attempting to write the binary output to a terminal causes
B<rwipfix2silk> to exit with an error.

=item B<--print-statistics>

Print, to the standard error, the number of records that were written
to the SiLK output file.  See also B<--log-destination>.

=item B<--interface-values>={B<snmp> | B<vlan>}

Specify which IPFIX fields should be stored in the C<input> and
C<output> fields of the generated SiLK Flow records.  If this switch
is not specified, the default is B<snmp>.  The choices are:

=over 4

=item I<snmp>

Store the indexes of the network interface cards where the flows
entered and left the router.  That is, store the C<ingressInterface>
in C<input> and the C<egressInterface> in C<output>.

=item I<vlan>

Store the VLAN identifiers for the source and destination networks.
That is, store C<vlanId> in C<input> and C<postVlanId> in C<output>.
If only one VLAN ID is available, C<input> is set to that value and
C<output> is set to 0.

=back

=item B<--log-destination>={B<none> | B<stdout> | B<stderr> | I<PATH>}

Write more detailed information to the specified destination.  The
default destination is B<none> which suppresses messages.  Use
B<stdout> or B<stderr> to send messages to the standard output or
standard error, respectively.  Any other value is treated as a file
name in which to write the messages.  When an existing file is
specified, B<rwipfix2silk> appends any messages to the file.
Information that is written includes the following:

=over 4

=item *

For each input stream, the number of forward and reverse IPFIX records
read and number of records ignored.

=item *

Messages about invalid records.

=item *

When the SILK_IPFIX_PRINT_TEMPLATES environment variable is set to 1,
the IPFIX templates that were read.

=item *

Additional messages enabled by the B<--log-flags> switch.

=back

=item B<--log-flags>=I<FLAGS>

Write additional messages regarding the IPFIX data to the
B<--log-destination>, where I<FLAGS> is a comma-separated list of
names specifying the type messages to write.  When this switch is not
specified, the default value for I<FLAGS> is C<none>.  This switch
takes the same values as the B<log-flags> setting in the
B<sensor.conf(5)> file.  This manual page documents the values that
are relevant for IPFIX data.  I<Since SiLK 3.10.2.>

=over 4

=item I<all>

Log everything.

=item I<default>

Enable the default set of log-flags used by F<sensor.conf>:
B<sampling>.  Despite the name, this is not the default setting for
this switch; B<none> is.

=item I<none>

Log nothing.  It is an error to combine this log-flag name with any
other.  This is the default setting for B<--log-flags>.

=item I<record-timestamps>

Log the timestamps that appear on each record.  This produces a lot of
output, and it is primarily used for debugging.

=item I<sampling>

Write messages constructed by parsing the IPFIX Options Templates
that specify the sampling algorithm (when samplingAlgorithm and
samplingInterval IEs are present) or flow sampler mode (when
flowSamplerMode and flowSamplerRandomInterval IEs are
present).

=item I<show-templates>

Write messages to the log describing each IPFIX template that is read.
The message contains embedded new lines, with the template ID and
domain on the first line, and each of the template's elements on the
following lines.  Each element is described by its name, its IE number
with the private enterprise number if any, and its length in the
template.  The format is that described in Section 10.2 of
L<RFC7013|https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7013>.
I<Since SiLK 3.19.0.>

=back

=item B<--note-add>=I<TEXT>

Add the specified I<TEXT> to the header of the output file as an
annotation.  This switch may be repeated to add multiple annotations
to a file.  To view the annotations, use the B<rwfileinfo(1)> tool.

=item B<--note-file-add>=I<FILENAME>

Open I<FILENAME> and add the contents of that file to the header of
the output file as an annotation.    This switch may be repeated to
add multiple annotations.  Currently the application makes no effort
to ensure that I<FILENAME> contains text; be careful that you do not
attempt to add a SiLK data file as an annotation.

=item B<--compression-method>=I<COMP_METHOD>

Specify the compression library to use when writing output files.  If
this switch is not given, the value in the SILK_COMPRESSION_METHOD
environment variable is used if the value names an available
compression method.  When no compression method is specified,
output to the standard output or to named pipes is not compressed, and
output to files is compressed using the default chosen when SiLK was
compiled.  The valid values for I<COMP_METHOD> are determined by which
external libraries were found when SiLK was compiled.  To see the
available compression methods and the default method, use the
B<--help> or B<--version> switch.  SiLK can support the following
I<COMP_METHOD> values when the required libraries are available.

=over 4

=item none

Do not compress the output using an external library.

=item zlib

Use the B<zlib(3)> library for compressing the output, and always
compress the output regardless of the destination.  Using zlib
produces the smallest output files at the cost of speed.

=item lzo1x

Use the I<lzo1x> algorithm from the LZO real time compression library
for compression, and always compress the output regardless of the
destination.  This compression provides good compression with less
memory and CPU overhead.

=item snappy

Use the I<snappy> library for compression, and always compress the
output regardless of the destination.  This compression provides good
compression with less memory and CPU overhead.  I<Since SiLK 3.13.0.>

=item best

Use lzo1x if available, otherwise use snappy if available, otherwise
use zlib if available.  Only compress the output when writing to a
file.

=back

=item B<--xargs>

=item B<--xargs>=I<FILENAME>

Read the names of the input files from I<FILENAME> or from the
standard input if I<FILENAME> is not provided.  The input is expected
to have one filename per line.  B<rwipfix2silk> opens each named file
in turn and reads records from it as if the filenames had been listed
on the command line.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following examples, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

To convert a packet capture (B<pcap(3)>) file, F<packets.pcap>, such as
that produced by B<tcpdump(1)>, to the SiLK format, use the
B<yaf(1)> tool (see L<http://tools.netsa.cert.org/yaf/>) to convert
the capture data to IPFIX and B<rwipfix2silk> to convert the IPFIX
data to the SiLK format, storing the records in F<silk.rw>:

 $ yaf --silk --in packets.pcap --out -             \
   | rwipfix2silk --silk-output=silk.rw

Note that you can produce the same result using the B<rwp2yaf2silk(1)>
wrapper script:

 $ rwp2yaf2silk --in packets.pcap --out silk.rw

You can use B<rwsilk2ipfix(1)> to convert the SiLK file back to an
IPFIX format, storing the result in F<ipfix.dat>:

 $ rwsilk2ipfix --silk-output=silk.rw ipfix.dat

If you want to create flow records that contain a single packet
(similar to the output of B<rwptoflow(1)>), specify
B<--idle-timeout=0> on the B<yaf> command line:

 $ yaf --silk --in packets.pcap --out - --idle-timeout=0    \
   | rwipfix2silk --silk-output=silk.rw

To have B<yaf> decode VLAN identifiers for 802.1Q packets and to have
B<rwipfix2silk> store the VLAN IDs in the C<input> and C<output>
fields of the SiLK Flow records, use:

 $ yaf --silk --in packets.pcap --out -                             \
   | rwipfix2silk --silk-output=silk.rw --interface-values=vlan

Note: B<yaf> releases prior to 1.3 would only export the VLAN
identifiers when the B<--mac> switch was provided on the command line.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_IPFIX_PRINT_TEMPLATES

When set to 1, B<rwipfix2silk> adds C<show-templates> to the
B<--log-flags> switch.  See the description of that switch for
additional information.

=item SILK_LIBFIXBUF_SUPPRESS_WARNINGS

When set to 1, B<rwipfix2silk> disables all warning messages generated
by libfixbuf.  These warning messages include out-of-sequence packets,
data records not having a corresponding template, record count
discrepancies, and issues decoding list elements.  I<Since SiLK
3.10.0.>

=item SILK_CLOBBER

The SiLK tools normally refuse to overwrite existing files.  Setting
SILK_CLOBBER to a non-empty value removes this restriction.

=item SILK_COMPRESSION_METHOD

This environment variable is used as the value for
B<--compression-method> when that switch is not provided.  I<Since
SiLK 3.13.0.>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwsilk2ipfix(1)>, B<rwfileinfo(1)>, B<rwp2yaf2silk(1)>,
B<rwptoflow(1)>, B<sensor.conf(5)>, B<silk(7)>, B<yaf(1)>,
B<tcpdump(1)>, B<pcap(3)>, B<zlib(3)>

=cut

$SiLK: rwipfix2silk.pod c317db03ed37 2019-10-11 14:47:18Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
