=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwcompare> - Compare the records in two SiLK Flow files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwcompare [--quiet] [--site-config-file] FILE1 FILE2

  rwcompare --help

  rwcompare --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwcompare> opens the two files named on the command and compares the
SiLK Flow records they contain.  If the records are identical,
B<rwcompare> exits with status 0.  If any of the records differ,
B<rwcompare> prints a message and exits with status 1.  If there is an
issue reading either file, an error is printed and the exit status is
2.  Use the B<--quiet> switch to suppress all output (error messages
included).  You may use C<-> or C<stdin> for one of the file names, in
which case B<rwcompare> reads from the standard input.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or B<--arg> I<param>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=over 4

=item B<--quiet>

Do not print a message if the files differ, and do not an print error
message if a file cannot be opened or read.

=item B<--site-config-file>=I<FILENAME>

Read the SiLK site configuration from the named file I<FILENAME>.
When this switch is not provided, B<rwcombine> searches for the site
configuration file in the locations specified in the L</FILES>
section.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following examples, the dollar sign (B<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  Some input lines are split over multiple lines in order to
improve readability, and a backslash (B<\>) is used to indicate such
lines.  The examples assume the existence of the file F<data.rw> that
contains SiLK Flow records.  The exit status of the most recent
command is available in the shell variable C<$?>.

Compare a file with itself:

 $ rwcompare data.rw data.rw
 $ echo $?
 0

Compare a file with itself, where one instance of the file is read
from the standard input:

 $ rwcat data.rw | rwcompare - data.rw
 $ echo $?
 0

Use B<rwsort(1)> to modify one instance of the file and compare the
results:

 $ rwsort --fields=proto data.rw | rwcompare - data.rw
 - data.rw differ: record 1
 $ echo $?
 1

Run the command again and use the B<--quiet> switch:

 $ rwsort --fields=proto data.rw | rwcompare --quiet - data.rw
 $ echo $?
 1

Compare the file with input containing two copies of the file:

 $ rwcat data.rw data.rw | rwcompare data.rw -
 data.rw - differ: EOF data.rw
 $ echo $?
 1

Compare the file with F</dev/null>:

 $ rwcompare --quiet /dev/null data.rw
 $ echo $?
 2

B<rwcompare> checks whether two files have the same records in the
same order.  To compare two arbitrary files, use B<rwsort(1)> to
reorder the records.  Make certain to provide enough fields to the
B<rwsort> command so that the records are in the same order.

 $ rwsort --fields=1-10,12-15,20-29 data.rw > /tmp/sorted-data.rw
 $ rwsort --fields=1-10,12-15,20-29 other-data.rw   \
   | rwcompare /tmp/sorted-data.rw -
 /tmp/sorted-data.rw - differ: record 103363


=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_CONFIG_FILE

This environment variable is used as the value for the
B<--site-config-file> when that switch is not provided.

=item SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR

This environment variable specifies the root directory of data
repository.  As described in the L</FILES> section, B<rwcombine> may
use this environment variable when searching for the SiLK site
configuration file.

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the install tree.  When
searching for configuration files, B<rwcombine> may use this
environment variable.  See the L</FILES> section for details.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<${SILK_CONFIG_FILE}>

=item F<${SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR}/silk.conf>

=item F<@SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR@/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk.conf>

Possible locations for the SiLK site configuration file which are
checked when the B<--site-config-file> switch is not provided.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwfileinfo(1)>, B<rwcat(1)>, B<rwsort(1)>, B<silk(7)>

=cut

$SiLK: rwcompare.pod 9dd9f9b1d75b 2016-06-22 22:00:34Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
