=pod

=head1 NAME

B<silk_config> - Print SiLK compiling and linking information

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  silk_config [--silk-version] [--compiler] [--cflags] [--include]
         [--libs] [--libsilk-libs] [--libsilk-thrd-libs]
         [--libflowsource-libs] [--data-rootdir] [--python-site-dir]

  silk_config --help

  silk_config --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<silk_config> prints configuration information used to compile and
link other files and programs against the SiLK header files and
libraries.  B<silk_config> will print the output value(s) selected by
the user, or all configuration information if no switches are
provided.

This command has nothing to do with the SiLK Configuration file.  See
the B<silk.conf(5)> manual page for information on that file.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.

=over 4

=item B<--silk-version>

Print the version of SiLK as a simple string.  This output from this
switch is only the version number; the output does not include the
additional configuration information that the B<--version> switch
normally prints.

=item B<--compiler>

Print the compiler used to build SiLK.

=item B<--cflags>

Print the include paths (that is, the B<-I> switches) and any
additional compiler flags to use when compiling a file against the
SiLK header files.  To only print the include paths, use B<--include>.

=item B<--include>

Print the include paths to use when compiling a file against the SiLK
header files.  See also B<--cflags>.

=item B<--libs>

This switch is an alias for B<--libsilk-libs>.

=item B<--libsilk-libs>

Print the linker flags (that is, the B<-L> and B<-l> switches) to use
when linking a program against F<libsilk.so>.

=item B<--libsilk-thrd-libs>

Print the linker flags to use when linking a program against
F<libsilk-thrd.so>.  Few external programs will need to use this
library.

=item B<--libflowsource-libs>

Print the linker flags to use when linking a program against
B<libflowsource.so>.  It is highly unlikely that an external program
will need to use this library.

=item B<--data-rootdir>

Print the compiled-in value of the default location of the SiLK data
repository, ignoring any environment variable settings.

=item B<--python-site-dir>

Print the name of the directory containing the F<silk> subdirectory
where the PySiLK module files were installed.  The user may need to
set the PYTHONPATH environment variable to this location to be able to
use PySiLK.  The value will be empty if PySiLK support is not
available in this build of SiLK.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<silk.conf(5)>, B<silk(7)>

=cut

$SiLK: silk_config.pod 9b1a7208f21f 2013-12-09 18:20:36Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
