=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwresolve> - Convert IP addresses in delimited text to hostnames

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwresolve [--ip-fields=FIELDS] [--delimiter=C] [--column-width=N]
      [--resolver={ c-ares | adns | getnameinfo | gethostbyaddr }]
      [--max-requests=N]

  rwresolve --help

  rwresolve --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwresolve> is an application that reads delimited textual input and
maps IP addresses in the input to host names up performing a reverse
DNS look-up.  If the look-up succeeds, the IP is replaced with the
host name (B<rwresolve> uses the first host name returned by the
resolver).  If the look-up fails, the IP address remains unchanged.

B<rwresolve> does a DNS query for every IP address, so it can be
B<extremely> slow.  B<rwresolve> works best on very limited data sets.
To reduce the number of DNS calls it makes, B<rwresolve> caches the
results of queries.  There are two libraries that support asynchronous
DNS queries which B<rwresolve> can use if either of those libraries
was found when SiLK was configured.  These libraries are the ADNS
library and the c-ares library.  Specify the B<--resolver> switch to
have B<rwresolve> use a particular function for look-ups.

When an IP address resolves to multiple names, B<rwresolve> prints the
first name returned by the resolver.

B<rwresolve> is designed specifically to deal with the output of
B<rwcut(1)>, though it will work with other SiLK tools that produce
delimited text.  B<rwresolve> reads the standard input, splits the
line into fields based on the delimiter (default 'B<|>'), converts the
specified I<FIELDS> (default fields 1 and 2) from an IP address in its
canonical form (e.g., dotted decimal for IPv4) to a hostname.  If the
field cannot be parsed as an address or if the look up fails to return
a hostname, the field is not modified.  The fields to convert are
specified via the B<--ip-fields>=I<FIELDS> option.  The B<--delimiter>
option can be used to specify an alternate delimiter.

Since hostnames are generally wider than IP addresses, the use of the
B<--column-width> field is advised to increase the width of the IP
columns.  If this switch is not specified, no justification of
hostnames is attempted.

By default, B<rwresolve> will use the c-ares library if available,
then it will use the ADNS library if available.  To choose a different
IP look up option, use the B<--resolver> switch.

The maximum number of parallel DNS queries to attempt with c-ares or
ADNS can be specified with the B<--max-requests> switch.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or S<B<--arg> I<param>>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=over 4

=item B<--ip-fields>=I<FIELDS>

Specify the column number(s) of the input that should be considered IP
addresses.  Column numbers start from 1.  If not specified, the
default is 1,2.

=item B<--delimiter>=I<C>

Specify the character that separates the columns of the input.  The
default is 'B<|>'.

=item B<--column-width>=I<WIDTH>

Set the width of the columns specified in B<--ip-fields> to I<WIDTH>.
When specified, the I<FIELDS> columns always have the specified
I<WIDTH> regardless of whether the IP to hostname mapping was
successful.  If this switch is not specified, fields containing IP
addresses that could not be resolved will maintain their input length,
and fields where the lookup was successful will be printed with no
padding.

=item B<--resolver>=B<c-ares>

Use the c-ares library to convert the IP addresses to hostnames.
Requires that the c-ares library was found when SiLK was configured.
This library supports IPv6 look-ups when SiLK is compiled to support
IPv6.

=item B<--resolver>=B<adns>

Use the ADNS library to convert the IP addresses to hostnames.
Requires that the ADNS library was found when SiLK was configured.
This library only supports IPv4 look-ups.

=item B<--resolver>=B<getnameinfo>

Use the B<getnameinfo(3)> C library function to convert IP addresses
to hostnames.  This function supports IPv6 look-ups when SiLK is
compiled to support IPv6.

=item B<--resolver>=B<gethostbyaddr>

Use the B<gethostbyaddr(3)> C library function to convert IP addresses
to hostnames.  This function only supports IPv4.

=item B<--max-requests>=I<MAX>

When the c-ares or ADNS library is used, limit the number of
outstanding DNS queries active at any one time to I<MAX>.  The default
is 128.  This switch is not available if neither c-ares nor ADNS were
found when SiLK was compiled.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

In the following examples, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

Suppose you have found some interesting data in the file
F<interesting.rw>, and you want to view the data using B<rwcut(1)>,
but you also want to determine the hostname of each the source IPs and
append that hostname to the B<rwcut> output.  In the example command
below, note how the source IP field (B<rwcut> field 1) was specified
twice in the B<rwcut> invocation, and B<rwresolve> is told to resolve
the second occurrence, which is field in column 13.  This allows you
to see the source IP (in the first column) and the host name it
mapped to (in the final column).

 $ rwcut --fields=1-12,1 interesting.rw             \
   | rwresolve --ip-field=13


=head1 ENVIRONMENT

When ADNS is used, the following environment variables affect it.  The
ADNS_ form of each variable takes precedence.

=over 4

=item RES_CONF

=item ADNS_RES_CONF

A filename, whose contents are in the format of F<resolv.conf>.

=item RES_CONF_TEXT

=item ADNS_RES_CONF_TEXT

A string in the format of F<resolv.conf>.

=item RES_OPTIONS

=item ADNS_RES_OPTIONS

These are parsed as if they appeared in the B<options> line of a
F<resolv.conf>.  In addition to being parsed at this point in the
sequence, they are also parsed at the very beginning before
F<resolv.conf> or any other environment variables are read, so that
any debug option can affect the processing of the configuration.

=item LOCALDOMAIN

=item ADNS_LOCALDOMAIN

These are interpreted as if their contents appeared in a B<search>
line in F<resolv.conf>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwcut(1)>, B<silk(7)>, B<gethostbyaddr(3)>, B<getnameinfo(3)>

=head1 BUGS

Because B<rwresolve> must do a DNS query for every IP address, it is
B<extremely> slow.

The output from B<rwresolve> is rarely columnar because hostnames can
be very long.  You may want to consider putting the resolved hostnames
in the final column of output.

=cut

$SiLK: rwresolve.pod cd09f0a5fcc6 2014-06-14 15:43:33Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
