=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwcat> - Concatenate SiLK Flow files into single stream

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwcat [--output-path=PATH] [--note-add=TEXT] [--note-file-add=FILE]
        [--print-filenames] [--byte-order={big | little | native}]
        [--ipv4-output] [--compression-method=COMP_METHOD]
        [--site-config-file=FILENAME]
        {[--xargs] | [--xargs=FILENAME] | [FILE [FILE...]]}

  rwcat --help

  rwcat --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwcat> reads SiLK Flow records and writes the records in the
standard binary SiLK format to the specified output-path; B<rwcat>
writes the records to the standard output when stdout is not the
terminal and B<--output-path> is not provided.

B<rwcat> reads SiLK Flow records from the files named on the command
line or from the standard input when no file names are specified and
B<--xargs> is not present.  To read the standard input in addition to
the named files, use C<-> or C<stdin> as a file name.  If an input
file name ends in C<.gz>, the file is uncompressed as it is read.
When the B<--xargs> switch is provided, B<rwcat> reads the names of
the files to process from the named text file or from the standard
input if no file name argument is provided to the switch.  The input
to B<--xargs> must contain one file name per line.

B<rwcat> does I<not> copy the invocation history and annotations
(notes) from the header(s) of the source file(s) to the destination
file.  The B<--note-add> or B<--note-file-add> switch may be used to
add a new annotation to the destination file.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or B<--arg> I<param>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=over 4

=item B<--output-path>=I<PATH>

Write the binary SiLK Flow records to I<PATH>, where I<PATH> is a
filename, a named pipe, the keyword C<stderr> to write the output to
the standard error, or the keyword C<stdout> or C<-> to write the
output to the standard output.  If I<PATH> names an existing file,
B<rwcat> exits with an error unless the SILK_CLOBBER environment
variable is set, in which case I<PATH> is overwritten.  When I<PATH>
ends in C<.gz>, the output is compressed using the library associated
with B<gzip(1)>.  If this switch is not given, the output is written
to the standard output.  Attempting to write the binary output to a
terminal causes B<rwcat> to exit with an error.

=item B<--note-add>=I<TEXT>

Add the specified I<TEXT> to the header of the output file as an
annotation.  This switch may be repeated to add multiple annotations
to a file.  To view the annotations, use the B<rwfileinfo(1)> tool.

=item B<--note-file-add>=I<FILENAME>

Open I<FILENAME> and add the contents of that file to the header of
the output file as an annotation.    This switch may be repeated to
add multiple annotations.  Currently the application makes no effort
to ensure that I<FILENAME> contains text; be careful that you do not
attempt to add a SiLK data file as an annotation.

=item B<--byte-order>=I<ENDIAN>

Set the byte order for the output SiLK Flow records.  The argument is
one of the following:

=over 4

=item C<native>

Use the byte order of the machine where B<rwcat> is running.  This is
the default.

=item C<big>

Use network byte order (big endian) for the output.

=item C<little>

Write the output in little endian format.

=back

=item B<--ipv4-output>

Force the output to contain only IPv4 flow records.  When this switch
is specified, IPv6 flow records that contain addresses in the
::ffff:0:0/96 prefix are converted to IPv4 and written to the output,
and all other IPv6 records are ignored.  When SiLK has not been
compiled with IPv6 support, B<rwcat> acts as if this switch were
always in effect.

=item B<--compression-method>=I<COMP_METHOD>

Specify the compression library to use when writing output files.  If
this switch is not given, the value in the SILK_COMPRESSION_METHOD
environment variable is used if the value names an available
compression method.  When no compression method is specified,
output to the standard output or to named pipes is not compressed, and
output to files is compressed using the default chosen when SiLK was
compiled.  The valid values for I<COMP_METHOD> are determined by which
external libraries were found when SiLK was compiled.  To see the
available compression methods and the default method, use the
B<--help> or B<--version> switch.  SiLK can support the following
I<COMP_METHOD> values when the required libraries are available.

=over 4

=item none

Do not compress the output using an external library.

=item zlib

Use the B<zlib(3)> library for compressing the output, and always
compress the output regardless of the destination.  Using zlib
produces the smallest output files at the cost of speed.

=item lzo1x

Use the I<lzo1x> algorithm from the LZO real time compression library
for compression, and always compress the output regardless of the
destination.  This compression provides good compression with less
memory and CPU overhead.

=item snappy

Use the I<snappy> library for compression, and always compress the
output regardless of the destination.  This compression provides good
compression with less memory and CPU overhead.  I<Since SiLK 3.13.0.>

=item best

Use lzo1x if available, otherwise use snappy if available, otherwise
use zlib if available.  Only compress the output when writing to a
file.

=back

=item B<--print-filenames>

Print the names of input files and the number of records each file
contains as the files are read.

=item B<--site-config-file>=I<FILENAME>

Read the SiLK site configuration from the named file I<FILENAME>.
When this switch is not provided, B<rwcat> searches for the site
configuration file in the locations specified in the L</FILES>
section.

=item B<--xargs>

=item B<--xargs>=I<FILENAME>

Read the names of the input files from I<FILENAME> or from the
standard input if I<FILENAME> is not provided.  The input is expected
to have one filename per line.  B<rwcat> opens each named file in turn
and reads records from it as if the filenames had been listed on the
command line.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following examples, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

To combine the results of several B<rwfilter(1)> runs---stored in the
files F<run1.rw>, F<run2.rw>, ... F<runN.rw>---together to create the
file F<combined.rw>, you can use:

 $ rwcat --output=combined.rw  *.rw

If the shell complains about too many arguments, you can use the UNIX
B<find(1)> function and pipe its output to B<rwcat>:

 $ find . -name '*.rw' -print                   \
   | rwcat --xargs --output=combined.rw

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_CLOBBER

The SiLK tools normally refuse to overwrite existing files.  Setting
SILK_CLOBBER to a non-empty value removes this restriction.

=item SILK_COMPRESSION_METHOD

This environment variable is used as the value for
B<--compression-method> when that switch is not provided.  I<Since
SiLK 3.13.0.>

=item SILK_CONFIG_FILE

This environment variable is used as the value for the
B<--site-config-file> when that switch is not provided.

=item SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR

This environment variable specifies the root directory of data
repository.  As described in the L</FILES> section, B<rwcat> may
use this environment variable when searching for the SiLK site
configuration file.

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the install tree.  When
searching for configuration files, B<rwcat> may use this environment
variable.  See the L</FILES> section for details.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<${SILK_CONFIG_FILE}>

=item F<${SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR}/silk.conf>

=item F<@SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR@/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk.conf>

Possible locations for the SiLK site configuration file which are
checked when the B<--site-config-file> switch is not provided.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwfilter(1)>, B<rwfileinfo(1)>, B<silk(7)>, B<gzip(1)>, B<find(1)>,
B<zlib(3)>

=head1 BUGS

Although B<rwcat> will read from the standard input, this feature
should be used with caution.  B<rwcat> will treat the standard input
as a single file, as it has no way to know when one file ends and the
next begins.  The following will not work:

 $ cat run1.rw run2.rw | rwcat --output=combined.rw     # WRONG!

The header of F<run2.rw> will be treated as data of F<run1.rw>,
resulting in corrupt output.

=cut

$SiLK: rwcat.pod 57cd46fed37f 2017-03-13 21:54:02Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
