=pod

=head1 NAME

B<mapsid> - Map between sensor names and sensor numbers

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  mapsid [--print-classes] [--print-descriptions]
        [--site-config-file=FILENAME]
        [{ <sensor-name> | <sensor-number> } ...]

  mapsid --help

  mapsid --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

As of SiLK 3.0, B<mapsid> is deprecated, and it will be removed in
the SiLK 4.0 release.  Use B<rwsiteinfo(1)> instead---the L</EXAMPLES>
section shows how to use B<rwsiteinfo> to get output similar to that
produced by B<mapsid>.

B<mapsid> is a utility that maps sensor names to sensor numbers or
vice versa depending on the input arguments.  Sensors are defined in
the B<silk.conf(5)> file.

When no sensor arguments are given to B<mapsid>, the mapping of all
sensor numbers to names is printed.  When a numeric argument is given,
the number to name mapping is printed for the specified argument.
When a name is given, its numeric id is printed.  For convenience when
typing in sensor names, case is ignored.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or B<--arg> I<param>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=over 4

=item B<--print-classes>

For each sensor, print the classes for which the sensor collects
data.  The classes are enclosed in square brackets, C<[]>.

=item B<--print-descriptions>

For each sensor, print the description of the sensor as defined in the
F<silk.conf> file (if any).

=item B<--site-config-file>=I<FILENAME>

Read the SiLK site configuration from the named file I<FILENAME>.
When this switch is not provided, B<mapsid> searches for the site
configuration file in the locations specified in the L</FILES>
section.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following examples demonstrate the use of B<mapsid>.  In addition,
each example shows how to get similar output using B<rwsiteinfo(1)>.

In the following examples, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

=head2 Name to number mapping

 $ mapsid beta
 BETA ->     1

 $ rwsiteinfo --fields=sensor,id-sensor --sensors=BETA
 Sensor|Sensor-ID|
   BETA|        1|

Unlike B<mapsid>, matching of the sensor name is case-sensitive in
B<rwsiteinfo>.

=head2 Number to name mapping

 $ mapsid 3
     3 -> DELTA

 $ rwsiteinfo --fields=id-sensor,sensor --sensors=3 --delimited=,
 Sensor-ID,Sensor
 3,DELTA

=head2 Print all mappings

 $ mapsid
     0 -> ALPHA
     1 -> BETA
     2 -> GAMMA
     3 -> DELTA
     4 -> EPSLN
     5 -> ZETA
      ....

 $ rwsiteinfo --fields=id-sensor,sensor --no-titles
   0| ALPHA|
   1|  BETA|
   2| GAMMA|
   3| DELTA|
   4| EPSLN|
   5|  ZETA|
   ...

=head2 Print the class

 $ mapsid --print-classes 3 ZETA
     3 -> DELTA  [all]
 ZETA  ->     5  [all]

 $ rwsiteinfo --fields=id-sensor,sensor,class:list --sensors=4,ZETA
 Sensor-ID|Sensor|Class:list|
         3| DELTA|       all|
         5|  ZETA|       all|

=head2 Print the class and description

 $ mapsid --print-classes --print-description 0 1
     0 -> ALPHA  [all]  "Primary gateway"
     1 -> BETA   [all]  "Secondary gateway"

B<rwsiteinfo> supports using an integer range when specifying sensors.

 $ rwsiteinfo --fields=id-sensor,sensor,class:list,describe-sensor \
       --sensors=0-1
 Sensor-ID|Sensor|Class:list|Sensor-Description|
         0| ALPHA|       all|   Primary gateway|
         1|  BETA|       all| Secondary gateway|


=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_CONFIG_FILE

This environment variable is used as the value for the
B<--site-config-file> when that switch is not provided.

=item SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR

This environment variable specifies the root directory of data
repository.  As described in the L</FILES> section, B<mapsid> may use
this environment variable when searching for the SiLK site
configuration file.

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the install tree.  When
searching for configuration files, B<mapsid> may use this environment
variable.  See the L</FILES> section for details.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<${SILK_CONFIG_FILE}>

=item F<${SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR}/silk.conf>

=item F<@SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR@/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk.conf>

Possible locations for the SiLK site configuration file which are
checked when the B<--site-config-file> switch is not provided.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwsiteinfo(1)>, B<silk.conf(5)>, B<silk(7)>

=head1 NOTES

As of SiLK 3.0, B<mapsid> is deprecated; use B<rwsiteinfo(1)> instead.

=cut

$SiLK: mapsid.pod 8b39dddcaab4 2013-12-06 21:47:40Z mthomas $

Local variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
