=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwappend> - Append SiLK Flow file(s) to an existing SiLK Flow file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwappend [--create=[TEMPLATE_FILE]] [--print-statistics]
         [--site-config-file=FILENAME]
         TARGET_FILE SOURCE_FILE [SOURCE_FILE...]

  rwappend --help

  rwappend --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwappend> reads SiLK Flow records from the specified I<SOURCE_FILE>s
and appends them to the I<TARGET_FILE>.  If C<stdin> is used as the
name of one of the I<SOURCE_FILE>s, SiLK flow records will be read
from the standard input.

When the I<TARGET_FILE> does not exist and the B<--create> switch is
not provided, B<rwappend> will exit with an error.  When B<--create>
is specified and I<TARGET_FILE> does not exist, B<rwappend> will
create the I<TARGET_FILE> using the same format, version, and
byte-order as the specified I<TEMPLATE_FILE>.  If no I<TEMPLATE_FILE>
is given, the I<TARGET_FILE> is created in the default format and
version (the same format that B<rwcat(1)> would produce).

The I<TARGET_FILE> must be an actual file---it cannot be a named pipe
or the standard output.  In addition, the header of I<TARGET_FILE>
must not be compressed; that is, you cannot append to a file whose
entire contents has been compressed with B<gzip> (those files normally
end in the C<.gz> extension).

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or S<B<--arg> I<param>>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=over 4

=item B<--create>

=item B<--create>=I<TEMPLATE_FILE>

Create the I<TARGET_FILE> if it does not exist.  The file will have
the same format, version, and byte-order as the I<TEMPLATE_FILE> if it
is provided; otherwise the defaults are used.  The I<TEMPLATE_FILE>
will B<NOT> be appended to I<TARGET_FILE> unless it also appears in
as the name of a I<SOURCE_FILE>.

=item B<--print-statistics>

Print to the standard error the number of records read from each
I<SOURCE_FILE> and the total number of records appended to the
I<TARGET_FILE>.

=item B<--site-config-file>=I<FILENAME>

Read the SiLK site configuration from the named file I<FILENAME>.
When this switch is not provided, B<rwappend> searches for the site
configuration file in the locations specified in the L</FILES>
section.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following examples, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

Standard usage where the file to append to, F<results.rw>, exists:

 $ rwappend results.rw sample5.rw sample6.rw

To append files F<sample*.rw> to F<results.rw>, or to create
F<results.rw> using the same format as the first file argument (note
that F<sample1.rw> must be repeated):

 $ rwappend results.rw --create=sample1.rw          \
        sample1.rw sample2.rw

If F<results.rw> does not exist, the following two commands are
equivalent:

 $ rwappend --create results.rw sample1.rw sample2.rw

 $ rwcat sample1.rw sample2.rw > results.rw

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_CONFIG_FILE

This environment variable is used as the value for the
B<--site-config-file> when that switch is not provided.

=item SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR

This environment variable specifies the root directory of data
repository.  As described in the L</FILES> section, B<rwappend> may
use this environment variable when searching for the SiLK site
configuration file.

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the install tree.  When
searching for configuration files, B<rwappend> may use this
environment variable.  See the L</FILES> section for details.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<${SILK_CONFIG_FILE}>

=item F<${SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR}/silk.conf>

=item F<@SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR@/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk.conf>

Possible locations for the SiLK site configuration file which are
checked when the B<--site-config-file> switch is not provided.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwcat(1)>, B<silk(7)>

=head1 BUGS

When a I<SOURCE_FILE> contains IPv6 flow records and the
I<TARGET_FILE> only supports IPv4 records, B<rwappend> converts IPv6
records that contain addresses in the ::ffff:0:0/96 prefix to IPv4 and
writes them to the I<TARGET_FILE>.  B<rwappend> silently ignores IPv6
records having addresses outside of that prefix.

B<rwappend> makes some attempts to avoid appending a file to itself
(which would eventually exhaust the disk space) by comparing the names
of files it is given; it should be smarter about this.

=cut

$SiLK: rwappend.pod cd09f0a5fcc6 2014-06-14 15:43:33Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
