=pod

=head1 NAME

B<ipafilter> - SiLK plug-in for flow filtering based on IPA data

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwfilter [--ipa-src-expr IPA_EXPR] [--ipa-dst-expr IPA_EXPR]
        [--ipa-any-expr IPA_EXPR] ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<ipafilter> plug-in provides switches to B<rwfilter(1)> that can
partition flows using data in an IPA database.  B<rwfilter> will
automatically load the B<ipafilter> plug-in when it is available.

=head1 OPTIONS

The B<ipafilter> plug-in provides the following options to rwfilter.

=over 4

=item B<--ipa-src-expr>=I<IPA_EXPR>

Use I<IPA_EXPR> to filter flows based on the source IP of the flow matching the
I<IPA_EXPR> expression.

=item B<--ipa-dst-expr>=I<IPA_EXPR>

Use I<IPA_EXPR> to filter flows based on the destination IP of the flow
matching the I<IPA_EXPR> expression.

=item B<--ipa-any-expr>=I<IPA_EXPR>

Use I<IPA_EXPR> to filter flows based on either the source or destination IP of
the flow matching the I<IPA_EXPR> expression.

=back

=head1 IPA EXPRESSIONS

The syntax for IPA filter expressions is documented in B<ipaquery(1)>.
Some simple examples are shown in the B<EXAMPLES> section below.

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following examples, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

To pull flows from or to any IP address in the "watch" catalog:

 $ rwfilter --start-date 2010/01/01:00                  \
        --ipa-any-expr "in watch at 2010/01/01"         \
        --pass watchflows.rw

To pull flows from any IP labeled "bad" in the last year:

 $ rwfilter --start-date 2010/01/01:00                  \
        --ipa-src-expr "label bad after 2009/01/01"     \
        --pass badguys.rw

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the install tree.  When
searching for configuration files and plug-ins, B<rwfilter> may use
this environment variable.  See the L</FILES> section for details.

=item SILK_PLUGIN_DEBUG

When set to 1, B<rwfilter> prints status messages to the standard
error as it attempts to find and open the F<ipafilter.so> plug-in.  A
typical invocation using this variable is

 env SILK_PLUGIN_DEBUG=1 rwfilter --plugin=ipafilter.so --version

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<$SILK_PATH/share/silk/silk-ipa.conf>

=item F<$SILK_PATH/share/silk-ipa.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk/silk-ipa.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk-ipa.conf>

Possible locations for the IPA configuration file.  This file contains
the URI for connecting to the IPA database.  If the configuration file
does not exist, attempts to use the B<ipafilter> plug-in will exit
with an error.  The format of this URI is
I<driver>://I<user>:I<pass-word>@I<hostname>/I<database>.  For
example:

 postgresql://ipauser:secret@database-server.domain.com/ipa

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/lib64/silk/ipafilter.so>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/lib64/ipafilter.so>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/lib/silk/ipafilter.so>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/lib/ipafilter.so>

=item F<@prefix@/lib64/silk/ipafilter.so>

=item F<@prefix@/lib64/ipafilter.so>

=item F<@prefix@/lib/silk/ipafilter.so>

=item F<@prefix@/lib/ipafilter.so>

Possible locations for the plug-in.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwfilter(1)>, B<rwipaimport(1)>, B<rwipaexport(1)>, B<silk(7)>,
B<ipaquery(1)>, B<ipaimport(1)>, B<ipaexport(1)>

=cut

$SiLK: ipafilter.pod cd09f0a5fcc6 2014-06-14 15:43:33Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
