=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwipaexport> - Export IPA datasets to SiLK binary data files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwipaexport --catalog=CATALOG [--time=TIME] [--prefix-map-name=NAME]
        [--note-add=TEXT] [--note-file-add=FILE]
        [--compression-method=COMP_METHOD] OUTPUT_FILE

  rwipaexport --help

  rwipaexport --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwipaexport> exports data from an IPA (IP Association,
L<http://tools.netsa.cert.org/ipa/>) data store to a SiLK IPset, Bag,
or prefix map file, depending on the type of the stored IPA catalog.
For catalogs with time information (e.g. time period at which the
stored data is considered valid) data can be selected for a specific
time of interest.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or S<B<--arg> I<param>>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=over 4

=item B<--catalog>=I<CATALOG_NAME>

Specifies the name of the IPA catalog to export from.

=item B<--time>=I<TIME>

This argument allows you to export a dataset that was active at
I<TIME>. The expected format of this option is
YYYY/MM/DD[:HH[:MM[:SS]]].  A dataset will only be returned if I<TIME>
falls between the start and end time for the dataset.  If this option
is not specified, the current time will be used.  See the B<TIME RANGES>
section of B<ipaimport(1)> for more information about how time
ranges are used in IPA.

=item B<--prefix-map-name>=I<NAME>

When creating a prefix map file, add I<NAME> to the header of the file
as the map-name.  When this switch is not specified, no map-name is
written to the file.  If the output is not a prefix map file, the
B<--prefix-map-file> switch is ignored.

=item B<--note-add>=I<TEXT>

Add the specified I<TEXT> to the header of the output file as an
annotation.  This switch may be repeated to add multiple annotations
to a file.  To view the annotations, use the B<rwfileinfo(1)> tool.

=item B<--note-file-add>=I<FILENAME>

Open I<FILENAME> and add the contents of that file to the header of
the output file as an annotation.    This switch may be repeated to
add multiple annotations.  Currently the application makes no effort
to ensure that I<FILENAME> contains text; be careful that you do not
attempt to add a SiLK data file as an annotation.

=item B<--compression-method>=I<COMP_METHOD>

Specify the compression library to use when writing output files.  If
this switch is not given, the value in the SILK_COMPRESSION_METHOD
environment variable is used if the value names an available
compression method.  When no compression method is specified,
output to the standard output or to named pipes is not compressed, and
output to files is compressed using the default chosen when SiLK was
compiled.  The valid values for I<COMP_METHOD> are determined by which
external libraries were found when SiLK was compiled.  To see the
available compression methods and the default method, use the
B<--help> or B<--version> switch.  SiLK can support the following
I<COMP_METHOD> values when the required libraries are available.

=over 4

=item none

Do not compress the output using an external library.

=item zlib

Use the B<zlib(3)> library for compressing the output, and always
compress the output regardless of the destination.  Using zlib
produces the smallest output files at the cost of speed.

=item lzo1x

Use the I<lzo1x> algorithm from the LZO real time compression library
for compression, and always compress the output regardless of the
destination.  This compression provides good compression with less
memory and CPU overhead.

=item snappy

Use the I<snappy> library for compression, and always compress the
output regardless of the destination.  This compression provides good
compression with less memory and CPU overhead.  I<Since SiLK 3.13.0.>

=item best

Use lzo1x if available, otherwise use snappy if available, otherwise
use zlib if available.  Only compress the output when writing to a
file.

=back

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following examples, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

To export the C<badhosts> IPset from an IPA set catalog into the file
F<badhosts.set> where there is no time information:

 $ rwipaexport --catalog=badhosts badhosts.set

To export the C<flowcount> Bag from an IPA bag catalog into the file
F<flowcount-20070415.bag> where there is time information:

 $ rwipaexport --catalog=flowcount --time=2007/04/15  \
        flowcount-20070415.bag

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_CLOBBER

The SiLK tools normally refuse to overwrite existing files.  Setting
SILK_CLOBBER to a non-empty value removes this restriction.

=item SILK_COMPRESSION_METHOD

This environment variable is used as the value for
B<--compression-method> when that switch is not provided.  I<Since
SiLK 3.13.0.>

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the directory tree where
the tools are installed.  When searching for the F<silk-ipa.conf>
configuration file, B<rwipaexport> may use this environment variable.
See the L</FILES> section for details.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<$SILK_PATH/share/silk/silk-ipa.conf>

=item F<$SILK_PATH/share/silk-ipa.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk/silk-ipa.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk-ipa.conf>

Possible locations for the IPA configuration file.  This file contains
the URI for connecting to the IPA database.  If the configuration file
does not exist, B<rwipaexport> will exit with an error.  The format of
this URI is I<driver>://I<user>:I<pass-word>@I<hostname>/I<database>.
For example:

 postgresql://ipauser:secret@database-server.domain.com/ipa

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwipaimport(1)>, B<rwfileinfo(1)>, B<ipafilter(3)>, B<silk(7)>,
B<ipaimport(1)>, B<ipaexport(1)>, B<ipaquery(1)>, B<zlib(3)>

=cut

$SiLK: rwipaexport.pod 9e3cbf975420 2019-09-24 14:42:59Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
