=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwipaimport> - Import SiLK IP collections into an IPA catalog

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwipaimport --catalog=CATALOG [--description=DESCRIPTION]
        [--start-time=START_TIME] [--end-time=END_TIME] INPUT_FILE

  rwipaimport --help

  rwipaimport --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwipaimport> reads a SiLK IPset, Bag, or Prefix Map file and imports
its contents into an IPA (IP Association,
L<http://tools.netsa.cert.org/ipa/>) catalog.  An IPA catalog is a
collection of sets, bags, and prefix maps which can have an optional
time period associated with them defining when that particular
collection of data is considered valid.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or S<B<--arg> I<param>>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=over 4

=item B<--catalog>=I<CATALOG_NAME>

Specifies the name of the IPA catalog to import into.  If the catalog
does not already exist in the IPA data store, it will be created.  This
option is required.

=item B<--description>=I<DESCRIPTION>

An optional text description of the catalog's contents.  This
description will be stored in the database and will be visible when
querying available catalogs with the B<ipaquery> tool.  The description
will only be added to new catalogs; if you import a dataset into an
existing catalog, this option is ignored.

=item B<--start-time>=I<START_TIME>

Specifies the beginning of the time range for which the imported data
is valid. The expected format of this option is either a timestamp in
YYYY/MM/DD[:HH[:MM[:SS]]] format, or C<...> (three dots) to indicate
the time range is left-unbounded.  For more information about this
argument, refer to the B<TIME RANGES> section of B<ipaimport(1)>.

=item B<--end-time>=I<END_TIME>

Specifies the end of the time range for which the imported data is
valid. The expected format of this option is either a timestamp in
YYYY/MM/DD[:HH[:MM[:SS]]] format, or C<...> (three dots) to indicate
the time range is right-unbounded. For more information about this
argument, refer to the B<TIME RANGES> section of B<ipaimport(1)>.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following examples, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

To import the IPset file F<test-april.set> into a new catalog with the
name C<testset> and a short description, with data valid for only the
month of April, 2007:

 $ rwipaimport --catalog=testset --desc="Test set catalog"      \
        --start=2007/04/01 --end=2007/05/01                     \
        test-april.set

To import the Bag file F<test.bag> into a new catalog named C<testbag>
with data valid for all dates and times (the C<...> literally means
the characters C<...>):

 $ rwipaimport --catalog=testbag --start=... --end=... test.bag

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the directory tree where
the tools are installed.  When searching for the F<silk-ipa.conf>
configuration file, B<rwipaimport> may use this environment variable.
See the L</FILES> section for details.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<$SILK_PATH/share/silk/silk-ipa.conf>

=item F<$SILK_PATH/share/silk-ipa.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk/silk-ipa.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk-ipa.conf>

Possible locations for the IPA configuration file.  This file contains
the URI for connecting to the IPA database.  If the configuration file
does not exist, B<rwipaimport> will exit with an error.  The format of
this URI is I<driver>://I<user>:I<pass-word>@I<hostname>/I<database>.
For example:

 postgresql://ipauser:secret@database-server.domain.com/ipa

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwipaexport(1)>, B<ipafilter(3)>, B<silk(7)>, B<ipaimport(1)>,
B<ipaexport(1)>, B<ipaquery(1)>

=cut

$SiLK: rwipaimport.pod 9e3cbf975420 2019-09-24 14:42:59Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
