=pod

=head1 NAME

B<addrtype> - Labeling IPv4 addresses as internal or external

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwfilter [--stype=ID] [--dtype=ID] ...

  rwcut --fields=sType,dType ...

  rwgroup --id-fields=sType,dType ...

  rwsort --fields=sType,dType ...

  rwstats --fields=sType,dType ...

  rwuniq --fields=sType,dType ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The I<address type> mapping file provides a way to map an IPv4 address
to an integer denoting the IP as internal, external, or non-routable.
With this mapping file, SiLK flow records can be partitioned
(B<rwfilter(1)>), displayed (B<rwcut(1)>), grouped (B<rwgroup(1)>),
sorted (B<rwsort(1)>), and counted (B<rwstats(1)> and B<rwuniq(1)>) by
the characteristic of the address.

The address type is a specialized form of the Prefix Map,
B<pmapfilter(3)>, where the following labels are assumed to exist and
to have the indicated values:

=over 4

=item S< 0 >

denotes a (I<non-routable>) IP address

=item S< 1 >

denotes an IP address I<internal> to the monitored network

=item S< 2 >

denotes an IP address I<external> to the monitored network

=back

The SiLK tools look for the address type mapping file in a standard
location as detailed in the L</FILES> section below.  To provide an
alternate location, specify that location in the SILK_ADDRESS_TYPES
environment variable.

Creating the prefix map file that maps IPs to one of these labels is
described in the L</MAPPING FILE> section below.

=head1 OPTIONS

The address type utility provides the following options to the
indicated applications.

=head2 B<rwfilter> Switches

=over 4

=item B<--stype>=I<ID>

When I<ID> is 0, pass the record if its source address is
non-routable.  When I<ID> is 1, pass the record if its source address
is internal.  When I<ID> is 2, pass the record if its source address
is external (i.e., routable and not internal).  When I<ID> is 3, pass
the record if its source address is not internal (non-routable or
external).

=item B<--dtype>=I<ID>

As B<--stype> for the destination IP address.

=back

=head2 B<rwcut>, B<rwgroup>, B<rwsort>, B<rwstats>, and B<rwuniq> Switches

=over 4

=item B<--fields>=I<FIELDS>

I<FIELDS> refers to a list of fields to use for the operation.  The
address type utility makes two additional fields, C<sType> (alias
C<16>) and C<dType> (C<17>) available for display, grouping, sorting,
and counting using the B<rwcut(1)>, B<rwgroup(1)>, B<rwsort(1)>,
B<rwstats(1)>, and B<rwuniq(1)> tools:

=over 4

=item sType,16

For the source IP address, prints 0 if the address is non-routable, 1
if it is internal, or 2 if it is routable and external.

=item dType,17

as B<sType>, except for the destination address

=back

=back

=head1 MAPPING FILE

To denote an address as C<non-routable>, C<internal>, or C<external>
at your site, you will need to create the F<address_types.pmap> file
and either install it in the appropriate location (see the L</FILES>
section below) or set the SILK_ADDRESS_TYPES environment variable to
the file's location.

The B<rwpmapbuild(1)> tool creates a I<prefix map> file from a text
file.  A template for the text file is available in
$SILK_PATH/share/silk/addrtype-templ.txt.  The text file used to
create F<address_types.pmap> must include the following section to
ensure that IPs are mapped to the integer values that the
F<addrtype.so> expects:

  #    Numerical mappings of labels

  label 0             non-routable
  label 1             internal
  label 2             external

  #    Default to "external" for all un-defined ranges.

  default             external

The remainder of the file can list CIDR blocks and a label for each
block:

  # RFC1918 space
  10.0.0.0/8          non-routable
  172.16.0.0/12       non-routable
  192.168.0.0/16      non-routable

  # My IP space (CMU)
  128.2.0.0/16        internal

Once the text file is saved to disk, use B<rwpmapbuild> to create
F<address_types.pmap>:

  rwpmapbuild --input addresses.txt --output address_types.pmap


=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_ADDRESS_TYPES

This environment variable allows the user to specify the address type
mapping file to use.  The value may be a complete path or a file
relative to SILK_PATH.  If the variable is not specified, the code
looks for a file named F<address_types.pmap> as specified in the
L</FILES> section below.

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the install tree.  The
SiLK applications check the directories F<$SILK_PATH/share/silk> and
F<$SILK_PATH/share> for the address type mapping file,
F<address_types.pmap>.

=back

=head1 FILES

The tools will look for the data file that maps IPs to labels in the
following locations.  ($SILK_ADDRESS_TYPES is the value of the
SILK_ADDRESS_TYPES environment variable, if it is set.  $SILK_PATH is
value of the SILK_PATH environment variable, if it is set.  The use of
F<@prefix@/> assumes the application is installed in the
F<@prefix@/bin/> directory.)

  $SILK_ADDRESS_TYPES
  $SILK_PATH/share/silk/address_types.pmap
  $SILK_PATH/share/address_types.pmap
  @prefix@/share/silk/address_types.pmap
  @prefix@/share/address_types.pmap

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwcut(1)>, B<rwfilter(1)>, B<rwgroup(1)>, B<rwpmapbuild(1)>,
B<rwpmapcat(1)>, B<rwsort(1)>, B<rwstats(1)>, B<rwuniq(1)>,
B<pmapfilter(3)>, B<silk(7)>

=cut

$SiLK: addrtype.pod 9e71f5672f24 2013-03-05 23:37:50Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
