=pod

=head1 NAME

B<ccfilter> - Mapping IPv4 addresses to country codes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwfilter [--scc=COUNTRY_CODES] [--dcc=COUNTRY_CODES] ...

  rwcut --fields=scc,dcc ...

  rwgroup --id-fields=scc,dcc ...

  rwsort --fields=scc,dcc ...

  rwstats --fields=scc,dcc ...

  rwuniq --fields=scc,dcc ...

  rwpmaplookup --country-codes ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The I<country code> mapping file provides a mapping from an IPv4
address to two-letter, lowercase abbreviation of the country where
that IP address is located.  The mapping file allows the country code
value of IP addresses on a SiLK Flow record to be partitioned
(B<rwfilter(1)>), displayed (B<rwcut(1)>), sorted (B<rwsort(1)>),
grouped (B<rwgroup(1)>), and counted (B<rwstats(1)> and B<rwuniq(1)>).

The B<rwpmaplookup(1)> tool, when invoked with the B<--country-codes>
switch, accepts textual input and prints the country code for the IPs,
which provide a way to print country codes for the IPs in SiLK IPsets
or bags.

The abbreviations used by the country code utility are the two-letter
codes defined in ISO 3166 part 1.  For additional information, see
L<https://www.iso.org/iso-3166-country-codes.html> and
L<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2>.  Some IP
addresses map to one of the following special codes:

=over 4

=item --

N/A (e.g. private and experimental reserved addresses)

=item a1

anonymous proxy

=item a2

satellite provider

=item o1

other

=back

The SiLK tools look for the country code mapping file in a standard
location as detailed in the L</FILES> section below.  To provide an
alternate location, specify that location in the SILK_COUNTRY_CODES
environment variable.

Creating the Prefix Map (pmap) file that maps an IP to its country
code requires the GeoIP2 Country or free GeoLite2 database created by
MaxMind, available from L<https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/>, as
described in the L</MAPPING FILE> section below.

=head1 OPTIONS

Country code support makes available two additional keys to the
B<--fields> switch in the B<rwcut(1)>, B<rwgroup(1)>, B<rwsort(1)>,
B<rwstats(1)>, and B<rwuniq(1)> tools:

=over 4

=item scc,18

Print, sort, and/or count the flow records by the country code
designation of the source IP address

=item dcc,19

As B<scc> for the destination address

=back

In B<rwfilter(1)>, the following switches are supported:

=over 4

=item B<--scc>=I<COUNTRY_CODE_LIST>

Pass the record if the country code of its source IP address is in the
specified I<COUNTRY_CODE_LIST>.

=item B<--dcc>=I<COUNTRY_CODE_LIST>

As B<--scc> for the destination IP address.

=back

=head1 MAPPING FILE

To map from IP addresses to country codes you will need to create the
F<country_codes.pmap> data file and install it in the appropriate
location (see the L</FILES> section below), or specify the path to the
file in the SILK_COUNTRY_CODES environment variable.

The prefix map data file is based on the GeoIP2 Country(R) or free
GeoLite2 database created by MaxMind and available from
L<https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/>.  We do not distribute the database
nor the data file, but we provide the B<rwgeoip2ccmap(1)> tool that
converts the GeoIP database to the format that F<ccfilter.so> expects.

MaxMind distributes multiple versions of their GeoIP Country database;
one is a free evaluation copy.  In addition, they sell versions with
higher accuracy, and they offer various subscription services.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_COUNTRY_CODES

This environment variable allows the user to specify the country code
mapping file that the SiLK tools use.  The value may be a complete
path or a file relative to SILK_PATH.  If the variable is not
specified, the code looks for a file named F<country_codes.pmap> as
specified in the L</FILES> section below.

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the install tree.  The
SiLK applications check the directories F<$SILK_PATH/share/silk> and
F<$SILK_PATH/share> for the country code mapping file,
F<country_codes.pmap>.

=back

=head1 FILES

The tools will look for the data file that maps IPs to country codes
in the following locations.  ($SILK_COUNTRY_CODES is the value
of the SILK_COUNTRY_CODES environment variable, if it is set.
$SILK_PATH is value of the SILK_PATH environment variable, if it is
set.  The use of F<@prefix@/> assumes the application is installed in
the F<@prefix@/bin/> directory.)

  $SILK_COUNTRY_CODES
  $SILK_PATH/share/silk/country_codes.pmap
  $SILK_PATH/share/country_codes.pmap
  @prefix@/share/silk/country_codes.pmap
  @prefix@/share/country_codes.pmap

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwcut(1)>, B<rwfilter(1)>, B<rwgroup(1)>, B<rwsort(1)>,
B<rwstats(1)>, B<rwuniq(1)>, B<rwgeoip2ccmap(1)>, B<rwpmaplookup(1)>,
B<silk(7)>

=cut

$SiLK: ccfilter.pod c95fb6174130 2018-04-13 20:33:46Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
