=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwip2cc> - Maps IP addresses to country codes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwip2cc { --address=IP_ADDRESS | --input-file=FILE }
        [--map-file=PMAP_FILE] [--print-ips={0,1}]
        [{--integer-ips | --zero-pad-ips}] [--no-columns]
        [--column-separator=CHAR] [--no-final-delimiter]
        [{--delimited | --delimited=CHAR}]
        [--output-path=PATH] [--pager=PAGER_PROG]

  rwip2cc --help

  rwip2cc --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

As of SiLK 3.0, B<rwip2cc> is deprecated, and it will be removed in
the SiLK 4.0 release.  Use B<rwpmaplookup(1)> instead---the
L</EXAMPLES> section shows how to use B<rwpmaplookup> to get output
similar to that produced by B<rwip2cc>.

B<rwip2cc> maps from (textual) IP address to two letter country code.
Either the B<--address> or B<--input-file> switch is required.

The B<--address> switch looks up the country code of a single IP
address and prints the country code to the standard output.

The B<--input-file> switch reads data from the specified file (use
C<stdin> or C<-> to read from the standard input) and prints, to the
standard output, the country code for each IP it sees.  Blank lines in
the input are ignored; comments, which begin at the C<#> character and
extend to the end of line, are also ignored.  Each line that is not a
blank or a comment should contain an IP address or a CIDR block;
B<rwip2cc> will complain if the line cannot be parsed.  Note that for
CIDR blocks, the CIDR block is exploded into its constituent IP
addresses and the country code for B<each> IP address is printed.

The B<--print-ips> switch controls whether the IP is printed with its
country code.  When B<--print-ips=1> is specified, the output contains
two columns: the IP and the country-code.  When B<--print-ips=0> is
specified, only the country code is given.  The default behavior is to
print the IP whenever the B<--input-file> switch is provided, and not
print the IP when B<--address> is given.

You can tell B<rwip2cc> to use a specific country code prefix map file
by giving the location of that file to the B<--map-file> switch.  The
country code prefix map file is created with the B<rwgeoip2ccmap(1)>
command.  When B<--map-file> is not specified, B<rwip2cc> attempts to
use the default country code mapping file, as specified in the
L</FILES> section below.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or B<--arg> I<param>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=over 4

=item B<--address>=I<IP_ADDRESS>

Print to the standard output the country code for the single
I<IP_ADDRESS>.

=item B<--input-file>=I<FILE>

Print the IP and country code for each IP address in I<FILE>; use
C<stdin> to read from the standard input.

=item B<--map-file>=I<PMAP_FILE>

Use the designated country code prefix mapping file instead of the
default.

=item B<--print-ips>={0|1}

Controls whether the IP is printed.  When the value is 1, the output
contains two columns: the IP and the country-code.  When the value is
0, only the country code is given.  When this switch is not specified,
the default behavior is to print the IPs only when input comes from a
file (i.e., when B<--input-file> is specified).

=item B<--integer-ips>

Enable printing of IPs and print the IPs as integers.  By default, IP
addresses are printed in their canonical form.

=item B<--zero-pad-ips>

Enable printing of IPs and print the IP addresses in their canonical
form, but add zeros to the IP address so it fully fills the width of
column.  For IPv4, use three digits per octet, e.g,
C<127.000.000.001>.

=item B<--no-columns>

Disable fixed-width columnar output.

=item B<--column-separator>=I<C>

Use specified character between columns and after the final column.
When this switch is not specified, the default of 'B<|>' is used.

=item B<--no-final-delimiter>

Do not print the column separator after the final column.  Normally a
delimiter is printed.

=item B<--delimited>

=item B<--delimited>=I<C>

Run as if B<--no-columns> B<--no-final-delimiter> B<--column-sep>=I<C>
had been specified.  That is, disable fixed-width columnar output; if
character I<C> is provided, it is used as the delimiter between
columns instead of the default 'B<|>'.

=item B<--output-path>=I<PATH>

Write the textual output to I<PATH>, where I<PATH> is a filename, a
named pipe, the keyword C<stderr> to write the output to the standard
error, or the keyword C<stdout> or C<-> to write the output to the
standard output (and bypass the paging program).  If I<PATH> names an
existing file, B<rwip2cc> exits with an error unless the SILK_CLOBBER
environment variable is set, in which case I<PATH> is overwritten.  If
this option is not given, the output is either sent to the pager or
written to the standard output.

=item B<--pager>=I<PAGER_PROG>

When the B<--input-file> switch is specified and output is to a
terminal, invoke the program I<PAGER_PROG> to view the output one
screen full at a time.  This switch overrides the SILK_PAGER
environment variable, which in turn overrides the PAGER variable.  If
the B<--output-path> switch is given or if the value of the pager is
determined to be the empty string, no paging is performed and all
output is written to the terminal.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following examples demonstrate the use of B<rwip2cc>.  In
addition, each example shows how to get similar output using
B<rwpmaplookup(1)>.

In the following examples, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

=head2 Single address specified on the command line

Print the country code for a single address using the default country
code map.  By default, only the value is printed when the address is
specified on the command line.

 $ rwip2cc --address=10.0.0.0
 --

Use the B<--print-ips> switch to print the address and the country.

 $ rwip2cc --print-ip=1 --address=10.0.0.0
        10.0.0.0|--|

B<rwpmaplookup> expects the input to come from a file, so use the
B<--no-files> switch to tell B<rwpmaplookup> that the command line
arguments are the addresses to print.  By default, B<rwpmaplookup>
prints a title line, and each row contains the key and the value.

 $ rwpmaplookup --country-code --no-files 10.0.0.0
           key|value|
      10.0.0.0|   --|

Use B<rwpmaplookup>'s command line switches to exactly mimic the
default output from B<rwip2cc>:

 $ rwpmaplookup --country-code --fields=value --delimited --no-title \
     --no-files 10.0.0.0
 --

=head2 Single address using a different country code file

Print the country code for a single address specified on the command
line using an older version of the country code mapping file.

 $ rwip2cc --map-file=old-addresses.pmap --address=128.2.0.0
 us

 $ rwpmaplookup --country-code=old-address-map.pmap --no-files 128.2.0.0
           key|value|
     128.2.0.0|   us|

=head2 Addresses read from the standard input

Using the default country code map, print the country code for
multiple addresses read from the standard input.  When the
B<--input-file> switch is given, the default output includes the
address.

 $ echo '10.0.0.0/31' | rwip2cc --input-file=stdin
        10.0.0.0|--|
        10.0.0.1|--|

You can use the B<--print-ips> switch to suppress the IPs.

 $ echo '10.0.0.0/31' | rwip2cc --print-ips=0 --input-file=stdin
 --
 --

Unlike B<rwip2cc>, B<rwpmaplookup> does not accept CIDR blocks as
input.  Use the IPset tools B<rwsetbuild(1)> to parse the CIDR block
list and B<rwsetcat(1)> to print the list.

 $ echo '10.0.0.0/31' | rwsetbuild | rwsetcat --cidr=0 \
     | rwpmaplookup --country-code
             key|value|
        10.0.0.0|   --|
        10.0.0.1|   --|

=head2 Addresses read from a file

Using an older version of the country code map, print the country code
for multiple addresses read from a file.

 $ export SILK_COUNTRY_CODES=old-addresses.pmap
 $ cat file.txt
 128.2.1.1
 128.2.2.2
 $ rwip2cc --input-file=file.txt
       128.2.1.1|us|
       128.2.2.2|us|

 $ rwpmaplookup --no-title --country-code file.txt
      128.2.1.1|   us|
      128.2.2.2|   us|

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_COUNTRY_CODES

This environment variable allows the user to specify the country code
mapping file that B<rwip2cc> will use.  The value may be a complete
path or a file relative to SILK_PATH.  If the variable is not
specified, the code looks for a file named F<country_codes.pmap> as
specified in the L</FILES> section below.

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the install tree.  As part
of its search for the Country Code mapping file, B<rwip2cc> checks the
directories F<$SILK_PATH/share/silk> and F<$SILK_PATH/share> for a
file named F<country_codes.pmap>.

=item SILK_CLOBBER

The SiLK tools normally refuse to overwrite existing files.  Setting
SILK_CLOBBER to a non-empty value removes this restriction.

=item SILK_PAGER

When set to a non-empty string, B<rwip2cc> automatically invokes this
program to display its output a screen at a time.  If set to an empty
string, B<rwip2cc> does not automatically page its output.

=item PAGER

When set and SILK_PAGER is not set, B<rwip2cc> automatically invokes
this program to display its output a screen at a time.

=back

=head1 FILES

B<rwip2cc> will look for the prefix map file that maps IPs to country
codes in the following locations.  ($SILK_COUNTRY_CODES is the value
of the SILK_COUNTRY_CODES environment variable, if it is set.
$SILK_PATH is value of the SILK_PATH environment variable, if it is
set.  The use of F<@prefix@/> assumes the application is installed in
the F<@prefix@/bin/> directory.)

  $SILK_COUNTRY_CODES
  $SILK_PATH/share/silk/country_codes.pmap
  $SILK_PATH/share/country_codes.pmap
  @prefix@/share/silk/country_codes.pmap
  @prefix@/share/country_codes.pmap

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwpmaplookup(1)>, B<rwgeoip2ccmap(1)>, B<rwsetbuild(1)>,
B<rwsetcat(1)>, B<silk(7)>

=cut

$SiLK: rwip2cc.pod a50d57a6c6a9 2017-03-13 20:35:05Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
