=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwrecgenerator> - Generate random SiLK Flow records

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwrecgenerator { --silk-output-path=PATH | --text-output-path=PATH
                   | { --output-directory=DIR_PATH
                       --processing-directory=DIR_PATH }}
        --log-destination=DESTINATION [--log-level=LEVEL]
        [--log-sysfacility=NUMBER] [--seed=SEED]
        [--start-time=START_DATETIME --end-time=END_DATETIME]
        [--time-step=MILLISECONDS] [--events-per-step=COUNT]
        [--num-subprocesses=COUNT] [--flush-timeout=MILLISEC]
        [--file-cache-size=SIZE] [--compression-method=COMP_METHOD]
        [--timestamp-format=FORMAT] [--epoch-time]
        [--ip-format=FORMAT] [--integer-ips] [--zero-pad-ips]
        [--integer-sensors] [--integer-tcp-flags] [--no-titles]
        [--no-columns] [--column-separator=CHAR]
        [--no-final-delimiter] [--delimited=[CHAR]]]
        [--site-config-file=FILENAME] [--sensor-prefix-map=FILE]
        [--flowtype-in=CLASS/TYPE] [--flowtype-inweb=CLASS/TYPE]
        [--flowtype-out=CLASS/TYPE] [--flowtype-outweb=CLASS/TYPE]

  rwrecgenerator --help

  rwrecgenerator --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwrecgenerator> uses pseudo-random numbers to generate I<events>,
where each consists of one or more SiLK Flow records.
These flow records can written as a single binary file, as text (in
either a columnar or a comma separated value format) similar to the
output from B<rwcut(1)>, or as a directory of small binary files to
mimic the I<incremental files> produced by B<rwflowpack(8)>.  The type
of output to produce must be specified using the appropriate switches.
Currently only one type of output may be produced in a single
invocation.

B<rwrecgenerator> works through a time window, where the starting and
ending times for the window may be specified on the command line.
When not specified, the window defaults to the previous hour.  By
default, B<rwrecgenerator> will generate one event at the start time
and one event at the end time.  To modify the size of the steps
B<rwrecgenerator> takes across the window, specify the B<--time-step>
switch.  The number of events to create at each step may be specified
with the B<--events-per-step> switch.

The time window specifies when the events begin.  Since most events
create multiple flow records with small time offsets between them (and
some events may create flow records across multiple hours), flow
records will exist that begin after the time window.

To generate a single SiLK flow file, specify its location with the
B<--silk-output-path> switch.  A value of C<-> will write the output
to the standard output unless the standard output is connected to a
terminal.

To produce textual output, specify B<--text-output-path>.
B<rwrecgenerator> has numerous switches to control the appearance of
the text; however, currently B<rwrecgenerator> produces a fixed set of
fields.

When creating incremental files, the B<--output-directory> and
B<--processing-directory> switches are required.  B<rwrecgenerator>
creates files in the processing directory, and moves the files to the
output directory when the flush timeout arrives.  The default flush
timeout is 30,000 milliseconds (30 seconds); the user may modify the
value with the B<--flush-timeout> switch. Any files in the processing
directory are removed when B<rwrecgenerator> starts.

The B<--num-subprocesses> switch tells B<rwrecgenerator> to use
multiple subprocesses when creating incremental files.  When the
switch is specified, B<rwrecgenerator> will split the time window into
multiple pieces and give each subprocess its own time window to
create.  The initial B<rwrecgenerator> process then waits for the
subprocesses to complete.  When B<--num-subprocesses> is specified,
B<rwrecgenerator> will create subdirectories under the
B<--processing-directory>, where each subprocess gets its own
processing directory.

The B<--seed> switch may be specified to provide a consistent set of
flow records across multiple invocations.  (Note that the names of the
incremental files will differ across invocations since those names are
created with the mkstemp(3) function.)

Given the same seed for the pseudo-random number generator and
assuming the B<--num-subprocesses> is I<not> specified, the output
from B<rwrecgenerator> will contain the same data regardless of
whether the output is written to a single SiLK flow file, a text file,
or a series of incremental files.

When both B<--seed> and B<--num-subprocesses> is specified, the
incremental files will contain the same flow records across
invocations, but the flow records will not be consistent with those
created by B<--silk-output-path> or B<--text-output-path>.

B<rwrecgenerator> must have access to a B<silk.conf(5)> site
configuration file, either specified by the B<--site-config-file>
switch on the command line or specified by the typical methods.

The B<--flowtype-in>, B<--flowtype-inweb>, B<--flowtype-out>, and
B<--flowtype-outweb> switches may be used to specify the I<flowtype>
(that is, the I<class>/I<type> pair) that B<rwrecgenerator> uses for
its flow records.  When these switches are not specified,
B<rwrecgenerator> attempts to use the flowtypes defined in the
F<silk.conf> file for the I<twoway> site.  Specifically, it attempts
to use "all/in", "all/inweb", "all/out", and "all/outweb",
respectively.

Use of the B<--sensor-prefix-map> switch is recommended.  The argument
should name a prefix map file that maps from an internal IP address to
a sensor number.  If the switch is not provided, all flow records will
use the first sensor in the F<silk.conf> file that is supported by the
class specified by the flowtypes.  When using the
B<--sensor-prefix-map>, make certain the sensors you choose are in the
class specified in the B<--flowtype->I<*> switches.

When using the B<--sensor-prefix-map> switch and creating incremental
files, it is recommended that you use the B<--file-cache-size> switch
to increase the size of the stream cache to be approximately 12 to 16
times the number of sensors.  This will reduce the amount of time
spent closing and reopening the files.

The B<--log-destination> switch is required.  Specify B<none> to
disable logging.

Currently, B<rwrecgenerator> only supports generating IPv4 addresses.
Addresses in 0.0.0.0/1 are considered internal, and addresses in
128.0.0.0/1 are considered external.  All flow records are between an
internal and an external address.  Whether the internal addresses is
the source or destination of the unidirectional flow record is
determined randomly.

The types of flow records that B<rwrecgenerator> creates are:

=over 4

=item *

HTTP traffic on port 80/tcp that consists of a query and a response.
This traffic will be about 30% of the total by flow count.

=item *

HTTPS traffic on port 443/tcp that consists of a query and a response.
This traffic will be about 30% of the total by flow count.

=item *

DNS traffic on port 53/udp that consists of a query and a response.
This traffic will be about 10% of the total by flow count.

=item *

FTP traffic on port 21/tcp that consists of a query and a response.
This traffic will be about 4% of the total by flow count.

=item *

ICMP traffic on that consists of a single message.  This traffic will
be about 4% of the total by flow count.

=item *

IMAP traffic on port 143/tcp that consists of a query and a response.
This traffic will be about 4% of the total by flow count.

=item *

POP3 traffic on port 110/tcp that consists of a query and a response.
This traffic will be about 4% of the total by flow count.

=item *

SMTP traffic on port 25/tcp that consists of a query and a response.
This traffic will be about 4% of the total by flow count.

=item *

TELNET traffic on port 23/tcp between two machines.  This traffic may
involve multiple flow records that reach the active timeout of 1800
seconds.  This traffic will be about 4% of the total by flow count.

=item *

Traffic on IP Protocols 47, 50, or 58 that consists of a single
record.  This traffic will be about 4% of the total by flow count.

=item *

Scans of every port on one IP address.  This traffic will be about 1%
of the total by flow count.

=item *

Scans of a single port across a range of IP addresses.  This traffic
will be about 1% of the total by flow count.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or B<--arg> I<param>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=head2 Output Switches

Exactly one of the following switches is required.

=over 4

=item B<--silk-output-path>=I<PATH>

Tell B<rwrecgenerator> to create a single binary file of SiLK flow
records at the specified location.  If I<PATH> is C<->, the records
are written to the standard output.  B<rwrecgenerator> does not
support writing binary data to a terminal.

=item B<--output-directory>=I<DIR_PATH>

Name the directory into which the incremental files are written once
the flush timeout is reached.

=item B<--text-output-path>=I<PATH>

Tell B<rwrecgenerator> to convert the flow records it creates to text
and to print the result in a format similar to that created by
B<rwcut(1)>.  The output is written to the specified location.  If
I<PATH> is C<->, the records are written to the standard output.

=back

=head2 Logging Switches

The B<--log-destination> switch is required.  Use a value of B<none>
to disable logging.

=over 4

=item B<--log-destination>=I<DESTINATION>

Specify the destination where logging messages are written.  When
I<DESTINATION> begins with a slash C</>, it is treated as a file
system path and all log messages are written to that file; there is no
log rotation.  When I<DESTINATION> does not begin with C</>, it must
be one of the following strings:

=over 4

=item C<none>

Messages are not written anywhere.

=item C<stdout>

Messages are written to the standard output.

=item C<stderr>

Messages are written to the standard error.

=item C<syslog>

Messages are written using the B<syslog(3)> facility.

=item C<both>

Messages are written to the syslog facility and to the standard error
(this option is not available on all platforms).

=back

=item B<--log-level>=I<LEVEL>

Set the severity of messages that will be logged.  The levels from
most severe to least are: C<emerg>, C<alert>, C<crit>, C<err>,
C<warning>, C<notice>, C<info>, C<debug>.  The default is C<info>.

=item B<--log-sysfacility>=I<NUMBER>

Set the facility that B<syslog(3)> uses for logging messages.  This
switch takes a number as an argument.  The default is a value that
corresponds to C<LOG_USER> on the system where B<rwrecgenerator> is
running.  This switch produces an error unless
B<--log-destination>=syslog is specified.

=back

=head2 General Switches

The following are general purpose switches.  None are required.

=over 4

=item B<--seed>=I<SEED>

Seed the pseudo-random number generator with the value I<SEED>.  When
not specified, B<rwrecgenerator> creates its own seed.  Specifying the
seed allows different invocations of B<rwrecgenerator> to produce the
same output (assuming the same value is given for all switches and
that the time window is specified).

=item B<--start-time>=I<YYYY/MM/DD[:HH[:MM[:SS[.ssssss]]]]>

=item B<--start-time>=I<EPOCH_SECONDS_PLUS_MILLISECONDS>

Specify the earliest date and time at which an event is started.  The
specified time must be given to at least day precision.  Any parts of
the date-time string that are not specified are set to 0.  The switch
also accepts UNIX epoch seconds with optional fractional seconds.
When not specified, defaults to the beginning of the previous hour.

=item B<--end-time>=I<YYYY/MM/DD[:HH[:MM[:SS[.ssssss]]]]>

=item B<--end-time>=I<EPOCH_SECONDS_PLUS_MILLISECONDS>

Specify the latest date and time at which an event is started.  This
time does B<not> specify the latest end-time for the flow records or
even the latest start-time, since many events simulate a
query/response pair, with the response following the query by a few
milliseconds.  The specified time must be given to at least day
precision, and it must not be less than the start-time.  Any parts of
the date-time string that are not specified are set to 0.  The switch
also accepts UNIX epoch seconds with optional fractional seconds.
When not specified, defaults to the end of the previous hour.

=item B<--time-step>=I<MILLISECONDS>

Move forward I<MILLISECONDS> milliseconds at each step as
B<rwrecgenerator> moves through the time window.  When not specified,
defaults to the difference between the start-time and end-time; that
is, B<rwrecgenerator> will generate events at the start-time and then
at the end-time.  A I<MILLISECONDS> value of 0 indicates
B<rwrecgenerator> should only create events at the start-time.

=item B<--events-per-step>=I<COUNT>

Create I<COUNT> events at each time step.  The default is 1.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how B<rwrecgenerator>
was configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head2 Incremental Files Switches

The following switches are used when creating incremental files.

=over 4

=item B<--processing-directory>=I<DIR_PATH>

Name the directory under the incremental files are initially created.
Any files in this directory are removed when B<rwrecgenerator> is
started.  When the flush timeout is reached, the files are closed and
moved from this directory to the output-directory.  If
B<--num-subprocesses> is specified, subdirectories are created under
I<DIR_PATH>, and each subprocess is given its own subdirectory.

=item B<--num-subprocesses>=I<COUNT>

Tell B<rwrecgenerator> to create I<COUNT> subprocesses to generate
incremental files.  This switch is ignored when incremental files are
not being created.  When this switch is specified, B<rwrecgenerator>
creates subdirectories below the processing directory.  The default
value for I<COUNT> is 0.

=item B<--flush-timeout>=I<MILLISECONDS>

Set the timeout for flushing any in-memory records to disk to
I<MILLISECONDS> milliseconds.  At this time, the incremental files are
closed and the files are moved from the processing directory to the
output directory.  The timeout uses the internal time as
B<rwrecgenerator> moves through the time window.  If not specified,
the default is 30,000 milliseconds (30 seconds).  This switch is
ignored when incremental files are not being created.

=item B<--file-cache-size>=I<SIZE>

Set the maximum number of data files to have open for writing at any
one time to I<SIZE>.  If not specified, the default is 32 files.

=item B<--compression-method>=I<COMP_METHOD>

Specify the compression library to use when writing binary output files.  If
this switch is not given, the value in the SILK_COMPRESSION_METHOD
environment variable is used if the value names an available
compression method.  When no compression method is specified, binary
output is compressed using the default chosen when SiLK was
compiled.  The valid values for I<COMP_METHOD> are determined by which
external libraries were found when SiLK was compiled.  To see the
available compression methods and the default method, use the
B<--help> or B<--version> switch.  SiLK can support the following
I<COMP_METHOD> values when the required libraries are available.

=over 4

=item none

Do not compress the SiLK Flow records using an external library.

=item zlib

Use the B<zlib(3)> library for compressing the flow records.

=item lzo1x

Use the I<lzo1x> algorithm from the LZO real-time compression library
for compressing the flow records.

=item snappy

Use the I<snappy> library for compressing the flow records.  I<Since
SiLK 3.13.0.>

=item best

Use lzo1x if available, otherwise use snappy if available, otherwise
use zlib if available.

=back

=back

=head2 Text File Switches

The following switches can be used when creating textual output.

=over 4

=item B<--timestamp-format>=I<FORMAT>

When producing textual output, specify the format, timezone, and/or
modifier to use when printing timestamps.  When this switch is not
specified, the SILK_TIMESTAMP_FORMAT environment variable is checked
for a format, timezone, and modifier.  If it is empty or contains
invalid values, timestamps are printed in the default format, and the
timezone is UTC unless SiLK was compiled with local timezone support.
I<FORMAT> is a comma-separated list of a format, a timezone, and/or a
modifier.  The format is one of:

=over 4

=item default

Print the timestamps as I<YYYY>/I<MM>/I<DD>TI<hh>:I<mm>:I<ss>.I<sss>.

=item iso

Print the timestamps as I<YYYY>-I<MM>-I<DD> I<hh>:I<mm>:I<ss>.I<sss>.

=item m/d/y

Print the timestamps as I<MM>/I<DD>/I<YYYY> I<hh>:I<mm>:I<ss>.I<sss>.

=item epoch

Print the timestamps as the number of seconds since 00:00:00 UTC on
1970-01-01.

=back

When a timezone is specified, it is used regardless of the default
timezone support compiled into SiLK.  The timezone is one of:

=over 4

=item utc

Use Coordinated Universal Time to print timestamps.

=item local

Use the TZ environment variable or the local timezone.

=back

One modifier is available:

=over 4

=item no-msec

Truncate the milliseconds value on the timestamps and on the duration
field.  When milliseconds are truncated, the sum of the printed start
time and duration may not equal the printed end time.

=back

=item B<--epoch-time>

When producing textual output, print timestamps as epoch time (number
of seconds since midnight GMT on 1970-01-01).  This switch is
equivalent to B<--timestamp-format=epoch>, it is deprecated as of SiLK
3.8.1, and it will be removed in the SiLK 4.0 release.

=item B<--ip-format>=I<FORMAT>

When producing textual output, specify how IP addresses are printed,
where I<FORMAT> is a comma-separated list of the arguments described
below.  When this switch is not specified, the SILK_IP_FORMAT
environment variable is checked for a value and that format is used if
it is valid.  The default I<FORMAT> is C<canonical>.  I<Since SiLK
3.8.1.>

=over 4

=item canonical

Print IP addresses in the canonical format.  For an IPv4 record, use
dot-separated decimal (C<192.0.2.1>).  For an IPv6 records, use either
colon-separated hexadecimal (C<2001:db8::1>) a or mixed IPv4-IPv6
representation for IPv4-mapped IPv6 addresses (the ::ffff:0:0/96
netblock, e.g., C<::ffff:192.0.2.1>) and IPv4-compatible IPv6
addresses (the ::/96 netblock other than ::/127, e.g.,
C<::192.0.2.1>).

=item no-mixed

Print IP addresses in the canonical format (C<192.0.2.1> or
C<2001:db8::1>) but do not used the mixed IPv4-IPv6 representations.
For example, use C<::ffff:c000:201> instead of C<::ffff:192.0.2.1>.
I<Since SiLK 3.17.0>.

=item decimal

Print IP addresses as integers in decimal format.  For example, print
C<192.0.2.1> and C<2001:db8::1> as C<3221225985> and
C<42540766411282592856903984951653826561>, respectively.

=item hexadecimal

Print IP addresses as integers in hexadecimal format.  For example,
print C<192.0.2.1> and C<2001:db8::1> as C<c00000201> and
C<20010db8000000000000000000000001>, respectively.

=item zero-padded

Make all IP address strings contain the same number of characters by
padding numbers with leading zeros.  For example, print C<192.0.2.1>
and C<2001:db8::1> as C<192.000.002.001> and
C<2001:0db8:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:0001>, respectively.  For IPv6
addresses, this setting implies C<no-mixed>, so that
C<::ffff:192.0.2.1> is printed as
C<0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:ffff:c000:0201>.  As of SiLK 3.17.0, may be
combined with any of the above, including C<decimal> and
C<hexadecimal>.

=back

The following arguments modify certain IP addresses prior to printing.
These arguments may be combined with the above formats.

=over 4

=item map-v4

Change IPv4 addresses to IPv4-mapped IPv6 addresses (addresses in the
::ffff:0:0/96 netblock) prior to formatting.  I<Since SiLK 3.17.0>.

=item unmap-v6

Change any IPv4-mapped IPv6 addresses (addresses in the ::ffff:0:0/96
netblock) to IPv4 addresses prior to formatting.  I<Since SiLK
3.17.0>.

=back

The following argument is also available:

=over 4

=item force-ipv6

Set I<FORMAT> to C<map-v4>,C<no-mixed>.

=back

=item B<--integer-ips>

When producing textual output, print IP addresses as integers.  This
switch is equivalent to B<--ip-format=decimal>, it is deprecated as of
SiLK 3.8.1, and it will be removed in the SiLK 4.0 release.

=item B<--zero-pad-ips>

When producing textual output, print IP addresses as fully-expanded,
zero-padded values in their canonical form.  This switch is equivalent
to B<--ip-format=zero-padded>, it is deprecated as of SiLK 3.8.1, and
it will be removed in the SiLK 4.0 release.

=item B<--integer-sensors>

When producing textual output, print the integer ID of the sensor
rather than its name.

=item B<--integer-tcp-flags>

When producing textual output, print the TCP flag fields (flags,
initialFlags, sessionFlags) as an integer value.  Typically, the
characters C<F,S,R,P,A,U,E,C> are used to represent the TCP flags.

=item B<--no-titles>

When producing textual output, turn off column titles.  By default,
titles are printed.

=item B<--no-columns>

When producing textual output, disable fixed-width columnar output.

=item B<--column-separator>=I<C>

When producing textual output, use specified character between columns
and after the final column.  When this switch is not specified, the
default of 'B<|>' is used.

=item B<--no-final-delimiter>

When producing textual output, do not print the column separator after
the final column.  Normally a delimiter is printed.

=item B<--delimited>

=item B<--delimited>=I<C>

When producing textual output, run as if B<--no-columns>
B<--no-final-delimiter> B<--column-sep>=I<C> had been specified.  That
is, disable fixed-width columnar output; if character I<C> is
provided, it is used as the delimiter between columns instead of the
default 'B<|>'.

=back

=head2 SiLK Site Specific Switches

The following switches control the class/type and sensor that
B<rwrecgenerator> assigns to every flow record.

=over 4

=item B<--sensor-prefix-map>=I<FILE>

Load a prefix map from I<FILE> and use it to map from the internal IP
addresses to sensor numbers.  If the switch is not provided, all flow
records will use the first sensor in the F<silk.conf> file that is
supported by the class named in the flowtype.  The sensor IDs
specified in I<FILE> should agree with the class specified in the
B<--flowtype->I<*> switches.

=item B<--flowtype-in>=I<CLASS>/I<TYPE>

Set the class/type pair for flow records where the source IP is
external, the destination IP is internal, and the flow record is not
considered to represent a I<web record> to I<CLASS>/I<TYPE>.  Web
records are those that appear on ports 80/tcp, 443/tcp, and 8080/tcp.
When not specified, B<rwrecgenerator> attempts to find the flowtype
"all/in" in the F<silk.conf> file.

=item B<--flowtype-inweb>=I<CLASS>/I<TYPE>

Set the class/type pair for flow records representing web records
where the source IP is external and the destination IP is internal to
I<CLASS>/I<TYPE>.  When not specified and the B<--flowtype-in> switch
is given, that I<CLASS>/I<TYPE> pair will be used.  When neither this
switch nor B<--flowtype-in> is given, B<rwrecgenerator> attempts to
find the flowtype "all/inweb" in the F<silk.conf> file.

=item B<--flowtype-out>=I<CLASS>/I<TYPE>

Set the class/type pair for flow records where the source IP is
internal, the destination IP is external, and the flow record is not
considered to represent a I<web record> to I<CLASS>/I<TYPE>.  When not
specified, B<rwrecgenerator> attempts to find the flowtype "all/out"
in the F<silk.conf> file.

=item B<--flowtype-outweb>=I<CLASS>/I<TYPE>

Set the class/type pair for flow records representing web records
where the source IP is internal and the destination IP is external to
I<CLASS>/I<TYPE>.  When not specified and the B<--flowtype-out> switch
is given, that I<CLASS>/I<TYPE> pair will be used.  When neither this
switch nor B<--flowtype-out> is given, B<rwrecgenerator> attempts to
find the flowtype "all/outweb" in the F<silk.conf> file.

=item B<--site-config-file>=I<FILENAME>

Read the SiLK site configuration from the named file I<FILENAME>.
When this switch is not provided, B<rwrecgenerator> searches for the
site configuration file in the locations specified in the L</FILES>
section.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_IP_FORMAT

This environment variable is used as the value for B<--ip-format> when
that switch is not provided.  I<Since SiLK 3.11.0.>

=item SILK_TIMESTAMP_FORMAT

This environment variable is used as the value for
B<--timestamp-format> when that switch is not provided.  I<Since SiLK
3.11.0.>

=item SILK_COMPRESSION_METHOD

This environment variable is used as the value for
B<--compression-method> when that switch is not provided.  I<Since
SiLK 3.13.0.>

=item SILK_CONFIG_FILE

This environment variable is used as the value for the
B<--site-config-file> when that switch is not provided.

=item SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR

This environment variable specifies the root directory of data
repository.  As described in the L</FILES> section, B<rwrecgenerator>
may use this environment variable when searching for the SiLK site
configuration file.

=item SILK_CLOBBER

The SiLK tools normally refuse to overwrite existing files.  Setting
SILK_CLOBBER to a non-empty value removes this restriction.

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the install tree.  When
searching for configuration files, B<rwrecgenerator> may use this
environment variable.  See the L</FILES> section for details.

=item TZ

When the argument to the B<--timestamp-format> switch includes
C<local> or when a SiLK installation is built to use the local
timezone, the value of the TZ environment variable determines the
timezone in which B<rwrecgenerator> displays timestamps.  (If both of
those are false, the TZ environment variable is ignored.)  If the TZ
environment variable is not set, the machine's default timezone is
used.  Setting TZ to the empty string or 0 causes timestamps to be
displayed in UTC.  For system information on the TZ variable, see
B<tzset(3)> or B<environ(7)>.  (To determine if SiLK was built with
support for the local timezone, check the C<Timezone support> value in
the output of B<rwrecgenerator --version>.)  The TZ environment
variable is also used when B<rwrecgenerator> parses the timestamp
specified in the B<--start-time> or B<--end-time> switches if SiLK is
built with local timezone support.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<${SILK_CONFIG_FILE}>

=item F<${SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR}/silk.conf>

=item F<@SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR@/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk.conf>

Possible locations for the SiLK site configuration file which are
checked when the B<--site-config-file> switch is not provided.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<silk(7)>, B<rwcut(1)>, B<rwflowpack(8)>, B<silk.conf(5)>,
B<syslog(3)>, B<zlib(3)>, B<tzset(3)>, B<environ(7)>

=cut

$SiLK: rwrecgenerator.pod 9e3cbf975420 2019-09-24 14:42:59Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
