=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwset> - Generate binary IPset files of unique IP addresses

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwset {--sip-file=FILE | --dip-file=FILE
         | --nhip-file=FILE | --any-file=FILE [...]}
        [--record-version=VERSION] [--invocation-strip]
        [--note-strip] [--note-add=TEXT] [--note-file-add=FILE]
        [--print-filenames] [--copy-input=PATH]
        [--compression-method=COMP_METHOD]
        [--ipv6-policy={ignore,asv4,mix,force,only}]
        [--site-config-file=FILENAME]
        {[--xargs] | [--xargs=FILENAME] | [FILE [FILE ...]]}

  rwset --help

  rwset --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwset> reads SiLK Flow records and generates one to four binary
IPset file(s).  In a single pass, B<rwset> can create one of each type
of its possible outputs, which are IPset files containing:

=over 4

=item *

the unique source IP addresses

=item *

the unique destination IP addresses

=item *

the unique next-hop IP addresses

=item *

the unique source and destination IP addresses

=back

The output files must not exist prior to invoking B<rwset>.  To write
an IPset file to the standard output, specify C<stdout> or C<-> as the
output file name.  B<rwset> will complain if you attempt to write the
IPset to the standard output and standard output is connected to the
terminal.  Only one IPset file may be written to the standard output.

B<rwset> reads SiLK Flow records from the files named on the command
line or from the standard input when no file names are specified and
B<--xargs> is not present.  To read the standard input in addition to
the named files, use C<-> or C<stdin> as a file name.  If an input
file name ends in C<.gz>, the file is uncompressed as it is read.
When the B<--xargs> switch is provided, B<rwset> reads the names of
the files to process from the named text file or from the standard
input if no file name argument is provided to the switch.  The input
to B<--xargs> must contain one file name per line.

IPset files are in a binary format that efficiently stores a set of IP
addresses.  The file only stores the presence of an IP address; no
volume information (such as a count of the number of times the IP
address occurs) is maintained.  To store volume information, use
B<rwbag(1)>.

Use B<rwsetcat(1)> to see the IP addresses in a binary IPset file.  To
create a binary IPset file from a list of IP addresses, use
B<rwsetbuild(1)>.  B<rwsettool(1)> allows you to perform set
operations on binary IPset files.  To determine if an IP address is a
member of a binary IPset, use B<rwsetmember(1)>.

To list the IPs that appear in the SiLK Flow file F<flows.rw>, the
command

 $ rwset --sip-file=stdout flows.rw | rwsetcat

is faster than B<rwuniq(1)>, but B<rwset> does not report the number
of flow records or compute byte and packets counts.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or B<--arg> I<param>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

At least one of the following output switches is required; multiple
output switches can be given, but an output switch cannot be repeated.

=over 4

=item B<--sip-file>=I<FILE>

Store the unique source IP addresses in the binary IPset file I<FILE>.
B<rwset> will write the IPset file to the standard output when I<FILE>
is C<stdout> or C<-> and the standard output is not a terminal.

=item B<--dip-file>=I<FILE>

Store the unique destination IP addresses in the binary IPset file
I<FILE>.  B<rwset> will write the IPset file to the standard output
when I<FILE> is C<stdout> or C<-> and the standard output is not a
terminal.

=item B<--nhip-file>=I<FILE>

Store the unique next-hop IP addresses in the binary IPset file
I<FILE>.  B<rwset> will write the IPset file to the standard output
when I<FILE> is C<stdout> and the standard output is not a terminal.

=item B<--any-file>=I<FILE>

Store the unique source and destination IP addresses in the binary
IPset file I<FILE>.  B<rwset> will write the IPset file to the
standard output when I<FILE> is C<stdout> or C<-> and the standard
output is not a terminal.

=back

Only one of the above switches my use C<stdout> as the name of the
file.

B<rwset> supports these additional switches:

=over 4

=item B<--record-version>=I<VERSION>

Specify the format of the IPset records that are written to the
output.  I<VERSION> may be 2, 3, 4, 5 or the special value 0.  When
the switch is not provided, the SILK_IPSET_RECORD_VERSION environment
variable is checked for a version.  The default version is 0.

=over 4

=item S< 0 >

Use the default version for an IPv4 IPset and an IPv6 IPset.  Use the
B<--help> switch to see the versions used for your SiLK installation.

=item S< 2 >

Create a file that may hold only IPv4 addresses and is readable by all
versions of SiLK.

=item S< 3 >

Create a file that may hold IPv4 or IPv6 addresses and is readable by
S<SiLK 3.0> and later.

=item S< 4 >

Create a file that may hold IPv4 or IPv6 addresses and is readable by
S<SiLK 3.7> and later.  These files are more compact that version 3
and often more compact than version 2.

=item S< 5 >

Create a file that may hold only IPv6 addresses and is readable by
S<SiLK 3.14> and later.  When this version is specified, IPsets
containing only IPv4 addresses are written in version 4.  These files
are usually more compact that version 4.

=back

=item B<--invocation-strip>

Do not record any command line history: do not copy the invocation
history from the input files to the output file, and do not record the
current command line invocation in the output.  The invocation may be
viewed with B<rwfileinfo(1)>.

=item B<--note-strip>

Do not copy the notes (annotations) from the input files to the output
file.  Normally notes from the input files are copied to the output.

=item B<--note-add>=I<TEXT>

Add the specified I<TEXT> to the header of every output file as an
annotation.  This switch may be repeated to add multiple annotations
to a file.  To view the annotations, use the B<rwfileinfo(1)> tool.

=item B<--note-file-add>=I<FILENAME>

Open I<FILENAME> and add the contents of that file to the header of
every output file as an annotation.  This switch may be repeated to
add multiple annotations.  Currently the application makes no effort
to ensure that I<FILENAME> contains text; be careful that you do not
attempt to add a SiLK data file as an annotation.

=item B<--print-filenames>

Print to the standard error the names of input files as they are
opened.

=item B<--copy-input>=I<PATH>

Copy all binary SiLK Flow records read as input to the specified file
or named pipe.  I<PATH> may be C<stdout> or C<-> to write flows to the
standard output as long as no IPset file is being written there.

=item B<--ipv6-policy>=I<POLICY>

Determine how IPv4 and IPv6 flows are handled when SiLK has been
compiled with IPv6 support.  When the switch is not provided, the
SILK_IPV6_POLICY environment variable is checked for a policy.  If it
is also unset or contains an invalid policy, the I<POLICY> is
B<mix>.  When SiLK has not been compiled with IPv6 support, IPv6
flows are always ignored, regardless of the value passed to this
switch or in the SILK_IPV6_POLICY variable.  The supported values for
I<POLICY> are:

=over

=item ignore

Ignore any flow record marked as IPv6, regardless of the IP addresses
it contains.  Only IP addresses contained in IPv4 flow records will be
added to the IPset(s).

=item asv4

Convert IPv6 flow records that contain addresses in the ::ffff:0:0/96
netblock (that is, IPv4-mapped IPv6 addresses) to IPv4 and ignore all
other IPv6 flow records.

=item mix

Process the input as a mixture of IPv4 and IPv6 flow records.  When
the input contains IPv6 addresses outside of the ::ffff:0:0/96
netblock, this policy is equivalent to B<force>; otherwise it is
equivalent to B<asv4>.

=item force

Convert IPv4 flow records to IPv6, mapping the IPv4 addresses into the
::ffff:0:0/96 netblock.

=item only

Process only flow records that are marked as IPv6.  Only IP addresses
contained in IPv6 flow records will be added to the IPset(s).

=back

Regardless of the IPv6 policy, when all IPv6 addresses in the IPset
are in the ::ffff:0:0/96 netblock, B<rwset> treats them as IPv4
addresses and writes an IPv4 IPset.  When any other IPv6 addresses are
present in the IPset, the IPv4 addresses in the IPset are mapped into
the ::ffff:0:0/96 netblock and B<rwset> writes an IPv6 IPset.

=item B<--compression-method>=I<COMP_METHOD>

Specify the compression library to use when writing output files.  If
this switch is not given, the value in the SILK_COMPRESSION_METHOD
environment variable is used if the value names an available
compression method.  When no compression method is specified,
output to the standard output or to named pipes is not compressed, and
output to files is compressed using the default chosen when SiLK was
compiled.  The valid values for I<COMP_METHOD> are determined by which
external libraries were found when SiLK was compiled.  To see the
available compression methods and the default method, use the
B<--help> or B<--version> switch.  SiLK can support the following
I<COMP_METHOD> values when the required libraries are available.

=over 4

=item none

Do not compress the output using an external library.

=item zlib

Use the B<zlib(3)> library for compressing the output, and always
compress the output regardless of the destination.  Using zlib
produces the smallest output files at the cost of speed.

=item lzo1x

Use the I<lzo1x> algorithm from the LZO real time compression library
for compression, and always compress the output regardless of the
destination.  This compression provides good compression with less
memory and CPU overhead.

=item snappy

Use the I<snappy> library for compression, and always compress the
output regardless of the destination.  This compression provides good
compression with less memory and CPU overhead.  I<Since SiLK 3.13.0.>

=item best

Use lzo1x if available, otherwise use snappy if available, otherwise
use zlib if available.  Only compress the output when writing to a
file.

=back

=item B<--site-config-file>=I<FILENAME>

Read the SiLK site configuration from the named file I<FILENAME>.
When this switch is not provided, B<rwset> searches for the site
configuration file in the locations specified in the L</FILES>
section.

=item B<--xargs>

=item B<--xargs>=I<FILENAME>

Read the names of the input files from I<FILENAME> or from the
standard input if I<FILENAME> is not provided.  The input is expected
to have one filename per line.  B<rwset> opens each named file in turn
and reads records from it as if the filenames had been listed on the
command line.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following examples, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

B<rwset> is intended to work tightly with B<rwfilter(1)>.  For
example, consider generating two IPsets: the first file,
F<low_packet_tcp.set>, contains the source IP addresses for incoming
flow records (that is, the external hosts) where the record has no
more than three packets in its sessions.  The second IPset file,
F<high_packet_tcp.set>, contains the external IPs for records with
four or more packets.

The first set, for TCP traffic on 03/01/2003 can be generated
with:

 $ rwfilter --start-date=2003/03/01:00 --end-date=2003/03/01:23     \
        --proto=6 --packets=1-3 --pass=stdout                       \
   | rwset --sip-file=low_packet_tcp.set

The second set with:

 $ rwfilter --start-date=2003/03/01:00 --end-date=2003/03/01:23    \
        --proto=6 --packets=4- --pass=stdout                       \
   | rwset --sip-file=high_packet_tcp.set


=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_IPSET_RECORD_VERSION

This environment variable is used as the value for the
B<--record-version> when that switch is not provided.
I<Since SiLK 3.7.0.>

=item SILK_IPV6_POLICY

This environment variable is used as the value for B<--ipv6-policy>
when that switch is not provided.

=item SILK_CLOBBER

The SiLK tools normally refuse to overwrite existing files.  Setting
SILK_CLOBBER to a non-empty value removes this restriction.

=item SILK_COMPRESSION_METHOD

This environment variable is used as the value for
B<--compression-method> when that switch is not provided.  I<Since
SiLK 3.13.0.>

=item SILK_CONFIG_FILE

This environment variable is used as the value for the
B<--site-config-file> when that switch is not provided.

=item SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR

This environment variable specifies the root directory of data
repository.  As described in the L</FILES> section, B<rwset> may
use this environment variable when searching for the SiLK site
configuration file.

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the install tree.  When
searching for configuration files, B<rwset> may use this environment
variable.  See the L</FILES> section for details.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<${SILK_CONFIG_FILE}>

=item F<${SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR}/silk.conf>

=item F<@SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR@/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk.conf>

Possible locations for the SiLK site configuration file which are
checked when the B<--site-config-file> switch is not provided.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwsetbuild(1)>, B<rwsetcat(1)>, B<rwsettool(1)>, B<rwsetmember(1)>,
B<rwfilter(1)>, B<rwfileinfo(1)>, B<rwbag(1)>, B<rwuniq(1)>,
B<silk(7)>, B<zlib(3)>

=head1 NOTES

Prior to S<SiLK 3.0>, an IPset file could not contain IPv6 addresses
and the record version was 2.  The B<--record-version> switch was
added in S<SiLK 3.0> and its default was 3.  In S<SiLK 3.6>, an
argument of 0 was allowed and made the default.  Version 4 was added
in S<SiLK 3.7> as was support for the SILK_IPSET_RECORD_VERSION
environment variable.  Version 5 was added in S<SiLK 3.14>.

=cut

$SiLK: rwset.pod 9e3cbf975420 2019-09-24 14:42:59Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
