=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwpcut> - Outputs a tcpdump dump file as ASCII

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwpcut [--columnar]
         [--delimiter=DELIMITER]
         [--epoch-time]
         [--fields=PRINT_FIELDS]
         [--integer-ips]
         [--zero-pad-ips]
         FILE...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwpcut> outputs tcpdump files in an easy to parse way.  It
supports a user-defined list of fields to output and a
user-defined delimiter between columns.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or
is an exact match for an option.

OUTPUT SWITCHES

=over 4

=item B<--columnar>

Pad each field with whitespace so that it always takes up
the same number of columns.  The two payload printing
fields, payhex and payascii, never pad with whitespace.

=item B<--delimiter>=I<DELIMITER>

DELIMITER is used as the delimiter between columns instead
of the default '|'.

=item B<--epoch-time>

Display the timestamp as epoch time seconds instead of a
formatted timestamp.

=item B<--fields>=I<PRINT_FIELDS>

PRINT_FIELDS is a comma-separated list of fields to
include in the output.  The available fields are:

timestamp - packet timestamp
sip       - source IP address.
dip       - destination IP address
sport     - source port
dport     - destination port
proto     - IP protocol
payhex    - Payload printed as a hex stream
payascii  - Payload printed as an ascii stream.
Non-printing characters are represented
with periods.

=item B<--integer-ips>

Display IP addresses as integers instead of in dotted quad
notation.

=item B<--zero-pad-ips>

Pad dotted quad notation IP addresses so that each quad
occupies three columns.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following examples, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.

=for comment
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

 $ rwpcut --fields=sip,dip,sport,dport,proto --columnar data.dmp

                sip|            dip|sport|dport|proto|
    220.245.221.126|  192.168.1.100|21776| 6882|    6|
    220.245.221.126|  192.168.1.100|21776| 6882|    6|


 $ rwpcut --fields=timestamp,payhex data.dmp

(Carriage returns mid-payload added for legibility)

    timestamp|payhex|
    2005-04-20 04:28:59.091470|4500003cd85840003206f3e2dcf5dd7
    ec0a8016455101ae2811b6bce00000000a002ffff59990000020405ac0
    10303000101080a524dc5cc00000000|
    2005-04-20 04:29:02.057390|4500003cd88c40003206f3aedcf5dd7
    ec0a8016455101ae2811b6bce00000000a002ffff59930000020405ac0
    10303000101080a524dc5d200000000|

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwptoflow(1)>, B<silk(7)>

=head1 BUGS

Note that payhex and payascii do not whitespace pad themselves
if B<--columnar> is used.

The payascii field does not escape the delimiter character in
any way, so care should be taken when parsing it.

=cut

$SiLK: rwpcut.pod cd09f0a5fcc6 2014-06-14 15:43:33Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
