=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwpdedupe> - Eliminate duplicate packets collected by several sensors

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwpdedupe { --first-duplicate | --random-duplicate[=SCALAR] }
        [--threshold=MILLISECONDS] FILE... > OUTPUT-FILE

  rwpdedupe --help

  rwpdedupe --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Detects and eliminates duplicate records from B<tcpdump(1)> capture
files.  Duplicate records are defined as having timestamps within a
user-configurable time of each other.  In addition, their Ethernet
(OSI layer 2) headers must match.  If they are not IP packets, then
their entire Ethernet payload must match.  If they are IP packets,
then their source and destination addresses, protocol, and IP payload
must match.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or B<--arg> I<param>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=over 4

=item B<--threshold>=I<MILLISECONDS>

Set the maximum number of milliseconds which may elapse between two
packets and still have those packets be detected as duplicates.
Default 0 (exact timestamp match).  Must be a value between 0 and
1,000,000 milliseconds.

=back

One and only one of the following switches is required:

=over 4

=item B<--first-duplicate>

When selecting between multiple duplicate packets, always choose the
packet with the earliest timestamp.  Not compatible with
B<--random-duplicate>.

=item B<--random-duplicate>

=item B<--random-duplicate>=I<SCALAR>

Select a random packet from the list of duplicate packets.  SCALAR is
a random number seed, so that multiple runs can produce identical
results.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following example, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

Given B<tcpdump> files F<data1.tcp> and F<data2.tcp>, detect and
eliminate duplicate packets which occur within one second of each
other (when choosing which timestamp to output, pick one randomly.)
Store the result file in F<out.tcp>.

 $ rwpdedupe --threshold=1000 --random-duplicate \
        data1.tcp data2.tcp > out.tcp

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<silk(7)>, B<mergecap(1)>, B<tcpdump(1)>, B<pcap(3)>

=head1 NOTES

B<mergecap(1)> can be used to merge two B<tcpdump> capture files
without eliminating duplicate packets.

=cut

$SiLK: rwpdedupe.pod 94bbee0e68ad 2017-05-23 18:39:19Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
