=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwswapbytes> - Change the byte order of a SiLK Flow file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwswapbytes
        { --big-endian | --little-endian
          | --native-endian | --swap-endian }
        [--note-add=TEXT] [--note-file-add=FILE]
        [INPUT_FILE [OUTPUT_FILE]]

  rwswapbytes --help

  rwswapbytes --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Read the SiLK Flow records from I<INPUT_FILE>, change the byte order
of each record as specified by the B<--big-endian>,
B<--little-endian>, B<--native-endian>, or B<--swap-endian> switch,
and write the records to I<OUTPUT_FILE>.

B<rwswapbytes> reads the input from the standard input either when no
non-switch arguments are given or when I<INPUT_FILE> is the string
C<stdin> or C<->.  B<rwswapbytes> writes the output to the standard
output either when the number of non-switch arguments is less than two
or when I<OUTPUT_FILE> is the string C<stdout> or C<->.

B<rwswapbytes> exits with an error code if an attempt is made to read
or write binary data from or to a terminal.

B<rwswapbytes> is able to read and write files that have been
compressed with B<gzip(1)> when the file's name ends with C<.gz>.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or B<--arg> I<param>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

One of these switches must be provided:

=over 4

=item B<--big-endian>

Write the output file in big-endian (network byte-order) format.

=item B<--little-endian>

Write the output file in little-endian (Intel) format.

=item B<--native-endian>

Write the output file in this machine's native format.

=item B<--swap-endian>

Unconditionally swap the byte-order of the input file.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

These switches are optional:

=over 4

=item B<--note-add>=I<TEXT>

Add the specified I<TEXT> to the header of the output file as an
annotation.  This switch may be repeated to add multiple annotations
to a file.  To view the annotations, use the B<rwfileinfo(1)> tool.

=item B<--note-file-add>=I<FILENAME>

Open I<FILENAME> and add the contents of that file to the header of
the output file as an annotation.    This switch may be repeated to
add multiple annotations.  Currently the application makes no effort
to ensure that I<FILENAME> contains text; be careful that you do not
attempt to add a SiLK data file as an annotation.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_CLOBBER

The SiLK tools normally refuse to overwrite existing files.  Setting
SILK_CLOBBER to a non-empty value removes this restriction.

=item SILK_CONFIG_FILE

This environment variable contains the location of the site
configuration file, B<silk.conf(5)>.  For additional locations where
site configuration file may reside, see the L</FILES> section.

=item SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR

This variable specifies the root of the directory tree where the data
store of SiLK Flow files is maintained, overriding the location that
is compiled into the tools (@SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR@).  B<rwswapbytes> may
search for the site configuration file, F<silk.conf>, in this
directory.  See the L</FILES> section for details.

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the directory tree where
the tools are installed.  As part of its search for the site
configuration file, B<rwswapbytes> may use this variable.  See the
L</FILES> section for details.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<${SILK_CONFIG_FILE}>

=item F<${SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR}/silk.conf>

=item F<@SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR@/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk.conf>

Possible locations for the SiLK site configuration file.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwfileinfo(1)>, B<silk.conf(5)>, B<silk(7)>, B<gzip(1)>

=head1 NOTES

Prior to SiLK 3.16.0, B<rwswapbytes> required explicit arguments for
the input file and the output file.

=cut

$SiLK: rwswapbytes.pod a273c76a6e08 2018-04-02 19:21:06Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
