=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwguess> - Determine which SNMP interfaces are active

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwguess [{ --top=NUM | --print-all }] PDU_FILE [PDU_FILE...]

  rwguess --help

  rwguess --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwguess> is deprecated as of SiLK 3.8.3 and it will be removed in
the SiLK 4.0 release.  Replace invocations of B<rwguess> with
B<rwpdu2silk(1)> and either B<rwstats(1)> or B<rwuniq(1)> as shown in
L</EXAMPLES>.

B<rwguess> reads NetFlow v5 PDUs from file(s) specified on the command
line and counts the number of flow records that are seen on each
input and output SNMP interface.  Once all input has been processed,
B<rwguess> sorts the SNMP interfaces by the number of records each
interface saw, and prints the two sorted lists, one for the input
interfaces and one for the output interfaces.  By default, only the
top-10 interfaces are printed; the number of rows printed may be
changed with the B<--top> switch.

When the B<--print-all> switch is specified, the results are printed
in SNMP interface order, with one column for the input record count
and another for the output record count, and one row for each
interface that saw traffic.

The purpose of B<rwguess> is to help one configure the C<sensor>
blocks in the B<silk.conf(5)> file used by B<rwflowpack(8)> to
categorize flow records into classes and types.

The PDU files are expected to be in the form created by NetFlow
Collector: Each file's size must be an integer multiple of 1464, where
each 1464 byte chunk contains a 24 byte NetFlow v5 header and space
for thirty 48 byte NetFlow records.  The number of valid records per
chunk is specified in the PDU header.

To convert a PDU file to a stream of SiLK Flow records, use
B<rwpdu2silk(1)>.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or S<B<--arg> I<param>>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=over 4

=item B<--top>=I<NUM>

Print the top I<NUM> interfaces for each of input and output.  If not
specified, the default is to print the top 10 interfaces.

=item B<--print-all>

Print all SNMP interfaces that saw records, sorted by the SNMP
interface number.  This switch disables top-N printing.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

B<rwguess> is deprecated.  This section demonstrates how to get
equivalent functionality by piping the output from B<rwpdu2silk(1)>
into either B<rwstats(1)> or B<rwuniq(1)>.

In the following examples, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

=head2 Top-N List

By default, B<rwguess> creates a top-10 list of SNMP interfaces.

 $ rwguess file.pdu
 Top 10 (of 36) SNMP Input Interfaces
 Index|  Input_Recs|
    54|        3466|
    38|        1374|
    84|         770|
    88|         746|
    56|         737|
    68|         513|
   106|         508|
    62|         373|
   114|         323|
     8|         321|

 Top 10 (of 37) SNMP Output Interfaces
 Index| Output_Recs|
    54|        3507|
    38|         885|
    98|         699|
    84|         673|
    88|         671|
    56|         605|
    58|         538|
   106|         501|
    92|         460|
    62|         380|

Use B<rwpdu2silk> to convert the file to SiLK flow format, and pipe
the result to B<rwstats>.  You must invoke B<rwstats> twice, once the
input interface (B<--field=in>) and once for the output interface
(B<--field=out>).  The B<--copy-input> switch allows the second
B<rwstats> command to read output from B<rwpdu2silk>.

 $ rwpdu2silk file.pdu  \
   | rwstats --count=10 --fields=in --copy-input=- --output-path=stderr \
   | rwstats --count=10 --fields=out
 INPUT: 12056 Records for 36 Bins and 12056 Total Records
 OUTPUT: Top 10 Bins by Records
    in|   Records|  %Records|   cumul_%|
    54|      3466| 28.750663| 28.750663|
    38|      1374| 11.398869| 40.149532|
    84|       770|  6.388336| 46.537868|
    88|       746|  6.193106| 52.730975|
    56|       737|  6.117718| 58.848693|
    68|       513|  4.261379| 63.110072|
   106|       508|  4.216760| 67.326831|
    62|       373|  3.094729| 70.421560|
   114|       323|  2.681877| 73.103437|
     8|       321|  2.666285| 75.769722|
 INPUT: 12056 Records for 37 Bins and 12056 Total Records
 OUTPUT: Top 10 Bins by Records
   out|   Records|  %Records|   cumul_%|
    54|      3507| 29.089205| 29.089205|
    38|       885|  7.347980| 36.437185|
    98|       699|  5.801735| 42.238920|
    84|       673|  5.588923| 47.827843|
    88|       671|  5.572502| 53.400345|
    56|       605|  5.022807| 58.423152|
    58|       538|  4.462497| 62.885649|
   106|       501|  4.155802| 67.041451|
    92|       460|  3.821822| 70.863273|
    62|       380|  3.157428| 74.020701|

=head2 Seeing all interfaces

The B<--print-all> switch shows all interfaces.

 $ rwguess --print-all file2.pdu
 Index|  Input_Recs| Output_Recs|
    10|       17099|       17115|
   172|        7893|        7893|
   192|       25008|       24992|

Use B<rwuniq> to generate similar output, though you must run
B<rwuniq> twice (as with B<rwstats> in the previous example).

 $ rwpdu2silk file2.pdu   \
   | rwuniq --sort --fields=in --copy-input=- --output-path=stderr  \
   | rwuniq --sort --fields=out
    in|   Records|
    10|     17099|
   172|      7893|
   192|     25008|
   out|   Records|
    10|     17115|
   172|      7893|
   192|     24992|

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwpdu2silk(1)>, B<rwstats(1)>, B<rwuniq(1)>, B<rwflowpack(8)>,
B<silk.conf(5)>, B<silk(7)>

=cut

$SiLK: rwguess.pod 94bbee0e68ad 2017-05-23 18:39:19Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
