=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwpdu2silk> - Convert NetFlow v5 records to SiLK Flow records

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwpdu2silk [--silk-output=PATH] [--print-statistics]
        [--log-destination={stdout | stderr | none | PATH}]
        [--log-flags={none | { {all | bad | default | missing
                                | record-timestamps} ...} } ]
        [--note-add=TEXT] [--note-file-add=FILE]
        [--compression-method=COMP_METHOD]
        {--xargs | --xargs=FILENAME | PDUFILE [PDUFILE...]}

  rwpdu2silk --help

  rwpdu2silk --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwpdu2silk> reads NetFlow v5 PDU (Protocol Data Units) records from
one or more files, converts the records to the SiLK Flow format, and
writes the SiLK records to the path specified by B<--silk-output> or
to the standard output when B<--silk-output> is not provided.  Note
that B<rwpdu2silk> cannot read from the standard input.

B<rwpdu2silk> expects its input files to be a the format created by
Cisco's NetFlow Collector: The file's size must be an integer multiple
of 1464, where each 1464 octet chunk contains a 24 octet NetFlow v5
header and space for thirty 48 octet NetFlow v5 records.  The number
of valid records per chunk is specified in the header.

B<rwpdu2silk> reads NetFlow v5 records from the files named on the
command line when B<--xargs> is not present.  If an input file name
ends in C<.gz>, the file is uncompressed as it is read.  When the
B<--xargs> switch is provided, B<rwpdu2silk> reads the names of the
files to process from the named text file or from the standard input
if no file name argument is provided to the switch.  The input to
B<--xargs> must contain one file name per line.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or B<--arg> I<param>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=over 4

=item B<--silk-output>=I<PATH>

Write the binary SiLK Flow records to I<PATH>, where I<PATH> is a
filename, a named pipe, the keyword C<stderr> to write the output to
the standard error, or the keyword C<stdout> or C<-> to write the
output to the standard output.  If I<PATH> names an existing file,
B<rwpdu2silk> exits with an error unless the SILK_CLOBBER environment
variable is set, in which case I<PATH> is overwritten.  If this switch
is not given, the output is written to the standard output.
Attempting to write the binary output to a terminal causes
B<rwpdu2silk> to exit with an error.

=item B<--print-statistics>

Print, to the standard error, the number of records that were written
to the SiLK output file.  See also B<--log-destination>.

=item B<--log-destination>={B<none> | B<stdout> | B<stderr> | I<PATH>}

Write more detailed information to the specified destination.  The
default destination is B<none> which suppresses messages.  Use
B<stdout> or B<stderr> to send messages to the standard output or
standard error, respectively.  Any other value is treated as a file
name in which to write the messages.  When an existing file is
specified, B<rwpdu2silk> appends any messages to the file.
Information that is written includes the following:

=over 4

=item *

For each input stream, the number of PDU records read, number of SiLK
records generated, number of missing records (based on the NetFlow v5
sequence number), and number of invalid records.

=item *

Messages about each NetFlow v5 packet that was rejected due a bad
version number or having a record count of 0 or more than 30.

=item *

Additional messages enabled by the B<--log-flags> switch.

=back

=item B<--log-flags>=I<FLAGS>

Write additional messages regarding the NetFlow v5 data to the
B<--log-destination>, where I<FLAGS> is a comma-separated list of
names specifying the type messages to write.  When this switch is not
specified, the default value for I<FLAGS> is C<none>.  This switch
takes the same values as the B<log-flags> setting in the
B<sensor.conf(5)> file.  This manual page documents the values that
are relevant for NetFlow v5 data.  I<Since SiLK 3.10.0.>

=over 4

=item I<all>

Log everything.

=item I<bad>

Write messages about an individual NetFlow v5 record where the packet
or octet count is zero, the packet count is larger than the octet
count, or the duration of the flow is larger than 45 days.

=item I<default>

Enable the default set of log-flags used by F<sensor.conf>: B<bad>,
B<missing>.  Despite the name, this is not the default setting for
this switch; B<none> is.

=item I<missing>

Examine the sequence numbers of NetFlow v5 packets and write messages
about missing and out-of-sequence packets.

=item I<none>

Log nothing.  It is an error to combine this log-flag name with any
other.  This is the default setting for B<--log-flags>.

=item I<record-timestamps>

Log the timestamps that appear on each record.  This produces a lot of
output, and it is primarily used for debugging.

=back

=item B<--note-add>=I<TEXT>

Add the specified I<TEXT> to the header of the output file as an
annotation.  This switch may be repeated to add multiple annotations
to a file.  To view the annotations, use the B<rwfileinfo(1)> tool.

=item B<--note-file-add>=I<FILENAME>

Open I<FILENAME> and add the contents of that file to the header of
the output file as an annotation.    This switch may be repeated to
add multiple annotations.  Currently the application makes no effort
to ensure that I<FILENAME> contains text; be careful that you do not
attempt to add a SiLK data file as an annotation.

=item B<--compression-method>=I<COMP_METHOD>

Specify the compression library to use when writing output files.  If
this switch is not given, the value in the SILK_COMPRESSION_METHOD
environment variable is used if the value names an available
compression method.  When no compression method is specified,
output to the standard output or to named pipes is not compressed, and
output to files is compressed using the default chosen when SiLK was
compiled.  The valid values for I<COMP_METHOD> are determined by which
external libraries were found when SiLK was compiled.  To see the
available compression methods and the default method, use the
B<--help> or B<--version> switch.  SiLK can support the following
I<COMP_METHOD> values when the required libraries are available.

=over 4

=item none

Do not compress the output using an external library.

=item zlib

Use the B<zlib(3)> library for compressing the output, and always
compress the output regardless of the destination.  Using zlib
produces the smallest output files at the cost of speed.

=item lzo1x

Use the I<lzo1x> algorithm from the LZO real time compression library
for compression, and always compress the output regardless of the
destination.  This compression provides good compression with less
memory and CPU overhead.

=item snappy

Use the I<snappy> library for compression, and always compress the
output regardless of the destination.  This compression provides good
compression with less memory and CPU overhead.  I<Since SiLK 3.13.0.>

=item best

Use lzo1x if available, otherwise use snappy if available, otherwise
use zlib if available.  Only compress the output when writing to a
file.

=back

=item B<--xargs>

=item B<--xargs>=I<FILENAME>

Read the names of the input files from I<FILENAME> or from the
standard input if I<FILENAME> is not provided.  The input is expected
to have one filename per line.  B<rwpdu2silk> opens each named file in
turn and reads records from it as if the filenames had been listed on
the command line.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_CLOBBER

The SiLK tools normally refuse to overwrite existing files.  Setting
SILK_CLOBBER to a non-empty value removes this restriction.

=item SILK_COMPRESSION_METHOD

This environment variable is used as the value for
B<--compression-method> when that switch is not provided.  I<Since
SiLK 3.13.0.>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwfileinfo(1)>, B<rwflowpack(8)>, B<sensor.conf(5)>, B<silk(7)>,
B<zlib(3)>

=head1 BUGS

B<rwpdu2silk> cannot read from the standard input.

=cut

$SiLK: rwpdu2silk.pod 57cd46fed37f 2017-03-13 21:54:02Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
