=pod

=head1 NAME

B<num2dot> - Convert an integer IP to dotted-decimal notation

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  num2dot [--ip-fields=FIELDS] [--delimiter=C]

  num2dot --help

  num2dot --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<num2dot> is a filter to speedup sorting of IP numbers and yet result
in both a C<natural> order (i.e., 29.23.1.1 will appear before
192.168.1.1) and readable output (i.e., dotted decimal rather than an
integer representation of the IP number).

It is designed specifically to deal with the output of B<rwcut(1)>.
Its job is to read stdin and convert specified fields (default field
1) separated by a delimiter (default 'B<|>') from an integer number
into a dotted decimal IP address.  Up to three IP fields can be
specified via the B<--ip-fields>=I<FIELDS> option.  The B<--delimiter>
option can be used to specify an alternate delimiter.

B<num2dot> does not support IPv6 addresses.  The L</EXAMPLES> section
below includes an example PySiLK script to handle IPv6.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or S<B<--arg> I<param>>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=over 4

=item B<--ip-fields>=I<FIELDS>

Column number of the input that should be considered IP numbers.
Column numbers start from 1.  If not specified, the default is 1.

=item B<--delimiter>=I<C>

The character that separates the columns of the input.  Default is
'B<|>'.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following example, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

Suppose in addition to the default fields of 1-12 produced by B<rwcut(1)>, you
want to prefix each row with an integer form of the destination
IP and the start time to make processing by another tool (e.g., a
spreadsheet) easier.  However, within the default B<rwcut> output
fields of 1-12, you want to see dotted-decimal IP addresses.  You
could use the following command:

 $ rwfilter ... --pass=stdout                               \
   | rwcut --fields=dip,stime,1-12 --ip-format=decimal      \
        --timestamp-format=epoch                            \
   | num2dot --ip-field=3,4

In the B<rwcut> invocation, you prepend the fields of interest (C<dip>
and C<stime> before the standard fields.  The first six columns
produced by B<rwcut> will be dIP, sTime, sIP, dIP, sPort, dPort.  The
B<--ip-format> switch causes the first, third, and fourth columns to
be printed as integers, but you only want the first column to have an
integer representation.  The pipe through B<num2dot> will convert the
third and fourth columns to dotted-decimal IP numbers.

B<num2dot> does not support converting integers to IPv6 addresses.
The following PySiLK script (see B<pysilk(3)>) could be used as a
starting-point to create a version of B<num2dot> that supports IPv6
addresses:

 #! /usr/bin/env python
 from __future__ import print_function
 import sys
 import silk
 # The IPv6 fields to process; the ID of the first field is 0
 ip_fields = (0, 1)
 # The delimiter between fields
 delim = '|'
 # The width of the IPv6 fields
 width = 39
 # The file to process; this script processes standard input
 f = sys.stdin
 try:
     for line in f:
         fields = line.rstrip(f.newlines).split(delim)
         for i in ip_fields:
             fields[i] = "%*s" % (width, silk.IPv6Addr(int(fields[i])))
         print(delim.join(fields))
 finally:
     f.close()

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwcut(1)>, B<pysilk(3)>, B<silk(7)>

=head1 BUGS

B<num2dot> has no support for IPv6 addresses.

=cut

$SiLK: num2dot.pod 57b4e75d4c8e 2015-10-20 15:41:08Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
