=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwreceiver> - Accepts files transferred from rwsender(s)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

To listen for incoming connections:

  rwreceiver --mode=server --server-port=[HOST:]PORT
        --client-ident=IDENT [--client-ident=IDENT ...]
        ...

To make outgoing connections:

  rwreceiver --mode=client --server-address=IDENT:HOST:PORT
        [--server-address=IDENT:HOST:PORT ...]
        ...


  rwreceiver  SERVER_MODE_OR_CLIENT_MODE_SWITCHES
        --identifier=IDENT --destination-directory=DIR_PATH
        [ --tls-ca=TRUST_FILE
          { { --tls-cert=CERTIFICATE_FILE --tls-key=KEY_FILE }
            | --tls-pkcs12=PKCS12_FILE }
          [--tls-priority=TLS_PRIORITY] [--tls-security=TLS_SECURITY]
          [--tls-crl=CRL_FILE] [--tls-debug-level=DB_LEVEL] ]
        [--post-command=COMMAND]
        [--duplicate-destination=DIR_PATH
          [--duplicate-destination=DIR_PATH...] ]
        [--unique-duplicates]
        [--freespace-minimum=SIZE] [--space-maximum-percent=NUM]
        { --log-destination=DESTINATION
          | --log-pathname=FILE_PATH
          | --log-directory=DIR_PATH [--log-basename=LOG_BASENAME]
            [--log-post-rotate=COMMAND] }
        [--log-level=LEVEL] [--log-sysfacility=NUMBER]
        [--pidfile=FILE_PATH] [--no-chdir] [--no-daemon]

  rwreceiver --help

  rwreceiver --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwreceiver> is a daemon which accepts files transferred from one or
more B<rwsender(8)> processes.  The received files are stored in a
destination directory.

B<rwreceiver> creates multiple copies of the files it receives when
one or more B<--duplicate-destination> switches are specified.  If
possible, the duplicate file is created as a reference (a hard link)
to the original file.  The B<--unique-duplicates> switch tells
B<rwreceiver> not to use hard links and forces B<rwreceiver> to create
an individual copy of the file in each duplicate destination
directory.  Failure to create a file in any of the duplicate
destination directories is noted in B<rwreceiver>'s log but it is not
treated as a failure to transfer the file.  Only when a file cannot be
created in the destination-directory does B<rwreceiver> consider the
transfer as failed.

The B<--post-command> switch tells B<rwreceiver> to execute a command
on each file that it successfully receives after the file has been
written to the destination directory and copied to each duplicate
destination directory.  The command may include a placeholder which
B<rwreceiver> fills with the path to the file in the destination
directory.  The exit status of the command is ignored by
B<rwreceiver>.  Any output on C<stdout> or C<stderr> from I<COMMAND>
normally appears in the log when the log messages are being written to
a local log file.  See also the B<rwpollexec(8)> daemon.

=head2 Interaction with B<rwsender>

Either B<rwsender> or B<rwreceiver> may act as the B<server> with the
other acting as the B<client>.  That is, an B<rwsender> server may
listen for connections from B<rwreceiver> clients, or an B<rwsender>
client may attempt to connect to one or more B<rwreceiver> servers.

In addition, each B<rwsender> and B<rwreceiver> is configured with an
identifier of its own and the identifier(s) of the B<rwreceiver>(s) or
B<rwsender>(s) that may connect to it.  The connection is closed if
the identifier provided by other process is not recognized.

Every B<rwsender> that communicates with the same B<rwreceiver> must
have a unique identifier; likewise, every B<rwreceiver> that
communicates with the same B<rwsender> must have a unique identifier.
Ideally, the identifier should provide some information about where
the B<rwsender> or B<rwreceiver> program is running and what sort of
data it is transferring.

=head2 Disk Usage

By default, if the disk that B<rwreceiver> writes to becomes full,
B<rwreceiver> prints a message to the log file and exits.

To prevent this, specify the B<--freespace-minimum> and/or
B<--space-maximum-percent> switches, which cause B<rwreceiver> to
monitor its disk usage.  These switches were added in SiLK 3.6.

If receiving a file from an B<rwsender> process would violate the
limits specified in those switches, B<rwreceiver> closes the
connection to that B<rwsender>.  This causes the connection to be
reestablished, and B<rwsender> tries to transfer the file again.  If
the filesystem is still full, B<rwreceiver> closes the connection
again.  After a delay, the connection is reestablished.  This loop is
repeated until the file is successfully transferred.  The delay
between each retry starts at five seconds and grows in five second
increments to a maximum of one minute.

When monitoring its disk usage, B<rwreceiver> accounts for one copy of
the number of bytes in the file.  B<rwreceiver> does not account for
the filesystem overhead associated with creating a file, and it does
not consider the space required to create multiple copies of the file
(cf., B<--duplicate-destination>).

=head2 File Creation

The following describes the process B<rwreceiver> uses when creating a
file it receives from B<rwsender>.  Administrators may find this
information useful when configuring other software to work with
B<rwreceiver>.

=over 4

=item 1

B<rwsender> sends the name of the file, the size of the file, and the
file's permission bits to B<rwreceiver>.

=item 2

If a file with that name already exists in B<rwreceiver>'s destination
directory, B<rwreceiver> checks the file's on-disk size.  If the size
is 0 and no other B<rwreceiver> thread is currently handling that
file, B<rwreceiver> assumes it is an aborted attempt to send the file,
and B<rwreceiver> removes the existing file.  Otherwise, B<rwreceiver>
tells B<rwsender> that the name represents a duplicate file, at which
point B<rwsender> moves the file to its error directory.

=item 3

When neither B<--freespace-minimum> nor B<--space-maximum-percent> is
specified, processing moves to the next step.  Otherwise,
B<rwreceiver> verifies that there is space on the filesystem to hold
one copy of the file.  As described in the L</Disk Usage> section
above, B<rwreceiver> delays processing the file until space is
available.

=item 4

B<rwreceiver> creates a 0-length placeholder file having the name of
the file being transferred, and B<rwreceiver> closes this file.  The
permission bits on this file are all 0.

=item 5

The B<rwreceiver> process creates a second file whose name consists of
a dot (B<.>) followed by the name of the file being transferred.  The
permission bits on this file are those sent by B<rwsender>.

=item 6

B<rwreceiver> writes the data it receives from B<rwsender> into the
dot file.

=item 7

Once the transfer is complete, B<rwreceiver> closes the dot file.

=item 8

If any duplicate destination directories have been specified,
B<rwreceiver> copies the dot file to each of those directories (using
a hard link if possible).  A failure to copy the file into a duplicate
destination is noted in the log file, but otherwise the error is
ignored.

=item 9

B<rwreceiver> renames the dot file to replace the placeholder file.

=item 10

The B<rwreceiver> process tells the B<rwsender> process that the
transfer was successfully completed.

=item 11

B<rwreceiver> prepares the command specified by the B<--post-command>
switch, perhaps filling in the complete path to the file in the
destination directory, and executes the command.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or B<--arg> I<param>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=head2 Application-specific switches

The following set of switches are required:

=over 4

=item B<--identifier>=I<IDENT>

Use the name I<IDENT> when establishing a connection with an
B<rwsender> process.  The identifier should contain only printable,
non-whitespace characters; the following characters are illegal: colon
(C<:>), slash (C</> and C<\>), period (C<.>), and comma (C<,>).

=item B<--mode>=I<MODE>

Specify how the connection between B<rwsender> and B<rwreceiver>(s)
should be established.  When I<MODE> is B<server>, B<rwreceiver>
listens for connections from B<rwsender> clients; when I<MODE> is
B<client>, B<rwreceiver> attempts to connect to B<rwsender> servers.

=item B<--destination-directory>=I<DIR_PATH>

Place the transferred files into I<DIR_PATH>.  Note that B<rwreceiver>
uses this as its processing directory; see the L</File Creation>
section above for details.

=back

=head2 Server-mode switches

When running in B<server> mode, the following switches are required:

=over 4

=item B<--server-port>=B<[>I<HOST>B<:]>I<PORT>

Listen for incoming B<rwsender> client connections on I<PORT> as
I<HOST>.  If I<HOST> is omitted, B<rwreceiver> listens on any
address.  I<HOST> may be a name or an IP address; when I<HOST> is an
IPv6 address, it must be enclosed in square brackets.

=item B<--client-ident>=I<IDENT>

Allow connections from an B<rwsender> client whose identifier is
I<IDENT>.  This switch may be repeated to allow multiple B<rwsender>
clients to connect.  B<rwreceiver> closes the connection if an
B<rwsender> client connects and does not provide a valid identifier.

=back

=head2 Client-mode switch

When running in B<client> mode, the following switch is required:

=over 4

=item B<--server-address>=I<IDENT>:I<HOST>:I<PORT>

Attempt to connect to the B<rwsender> server listening to port number
I<PORT> on the machine I<HOST>.  B<rwreceiver> closes the connection
unless the B<rwsender> identifies itself as I<IDENT>.  This switch may
be repeated to connect to multiple B<rwsender> servers.  I<HOST> may
be a name or an IP address; when I<HOST> is an IPv6 address, it must
be enclosed in square brackets.

=back

=head2 Transport Layer Security switches

It is possible to build SiLK with support for the GnuTLS Transport
Layer Security library (L<https://www.gnutls.org/>) which allows
B<rwsender> and B<rwreceiver> to use an encrypted/authenticated
channel for their communication.  When SiLK includes GnuTLS support,
the following switches are available.  To enable use of GnuTLS, specify
the B<--tls-ca> switch and either the B<--tls-pkcs12> switch or both
the B<--tls-cert> and B<--tls-key> switches.

=over 4

=item B<--tls-ca>=I<TRUST_FILE>

Set the trusted certificate authorities to those in I<TRUST_FILE>,
where I<TRUST_FILE> is the complete path to a file containing a
PEM-encoded list of certificates.  This list of authorities is used to
verify the certificate sent by B<rwsender>.  This switch must be
used in conjunction with either the B<--tls-pkcs12> switch or both the
B<--tls-cert> and the B<--tls-key> switches.

=item B<--tls-cert>=I<CERTIFICATE_FILE>

Set the certificate list (path) for B<rwreceiver>'s private key to the
list of certificates in I<CERTIFICATE_FILE>, where I<CERTIFICATE_FILE>
is the complete path to a file containing the PEM-encoded
certificates.  This switch may only be used in conjunction with the
B<--tls-ca> and B<--tls-key> switches.

=item B<--tls-key>=I<KEY_FILE>

Read B<rwreceiver>'s private encryption key for TLS from I<KEY_FILE>,
where I<KEY_FILE> is the complete path to a PEM-encoded file.  This
switch may only be used in conjunction with the B<--tls-ca> and
B<--tls-cert> switches.

=item B<--tls-pkcs12>=I<PKCS12_FILE>

Set B<rwreceiver>'s encryption certificate and private key for TLS to
the contents of I<PKCS12_FILE>, where I<PKCS12_FILE> is the complete
path to a file containing the PKCS#12 contents in DER-format.  This
switch may only be used in conjunction with the B<--tls-ca> switch.
B<rwreceiver> uses the value in the RWRECEIVER_TLS_PASSWORD environment
variable to decrypt the PKCS#12 file.  If this variable is not set,
B<rwreceiver> assumes the password is the empty string.

=item B<--tls-priority>=I<TLS_PRIORITY>

Set the preference order (priority) for ciphers, key exchange methods,
message authentication codes, and compression methods to those in
I<TLS_PRIORITY>.  This switch is optional; the default value is
C<NORMAL>.  The argument is parsed by the GnuTLS library, and the
available arguments depend on the version of GnuTLS linked with SiLK.
Detailed information on the format of the argument is available in the
GnuTLS documentation under I<Priority Strings> (e.g.,
L<https://gnutls.org/manual/html_node/Priority-Strings.html>) provides
the set for the most recent version of GnuTLS; the values used at your
site may be different).  See also the output of running
B<gnutls-cli(1)> with the B<--priority-list> switch.  I<Since SiLK
3.18.0.>

=item B<--tls-security>=I<TLS_SECURITY>

Set the security level to use when generating Diffie-Hellman
parameters to I<TLS_SECURITY>, where I<TLS_SECURITY> is one of C<low>,
C<medium>, C<high>, or C<ultra>.  This switch is optional, and when
not specified a value of C<medium> is used.  For the meaning of these
values see I<Selecting cryptographic key sizes> in the GnuTLS
documentation at your site (e.g.,
L<https://gnutls.org/manual/html_node/Selecting-cryptographic-key-sizes.html>).
I<Since SiLK 3.18.0.>

=item B<--tls-crl>=I<CRL_FILE>

Update the list of trusted certificates with the certificate
revocation lists contained in I<CRL_FILE>, where I<CRL_FILE> is the
complete path to a file containing PEM-encoded list of CRLs.  This
switch is optional.  I<Since SiLK 3.18.0.>

=item B<--tls-debug-level>=I<DB_LEVEL>

Set the debugging level used internally by the GnuTLS library to
I<DB_LEVEL>, an integer between 0 and 99 inclusive.  The messages are
written to the log destation at the C<info> level.  The default value
of 0 disables debugging.  Larger values may reveal sensitive
information and should be used carefully.  A value above 10 enables
all debugging options.  I<Since SiLK 3.18.0.>

=back

=head2 Required logging switches

One of the following logging switches is required:

=over 4

=item B<--log-destination>=I<DESTINATION>

Specify the destination where logging messages are written.  When
I<DESTINATION> begins with a slash C</>, it is treated as a file
system path and all log messages are written to that file; there is no
log rotation.  When I<DESTINATION> does not begin with C</>, it must
be one of the following strings:

=over 4

=item C<none>

Messages are not written anywhere.

=item C<stdout>

Messages are written to the standard output.

=item C<stderr>

Messages are written to the standard error.

=item C<syslog>

Messages are written using the B<syslog(3)> facility.

=item C<both>

Messages are written to the syslog facility and to the standard error
(this option is not available on all platforms).

=back

=item B<--log-directory>=I<DIR_PATH>

Use I<DIR_PATH> as the directory where the log files are written.
I<DIR_PATH> must be a complete directory path.  The log files have the
form

 DIR_PATH/LOG_BASENAME-YYYYMMDD.log

where I<YYYYMMDD> is the current date and I<LOG_BASENAME> is the
application name or the value passed to the B<--log-basename> switch
when provided.  The log files are rotated: At midnight local time, a
new log is opened, the previous file is closed, and the command
specified by B<--log-post-rotate> is invoked on the previous day's log
file.  (Old log files are not removed by B<rwreceiver>; the
administrator should use another tool to remove them.)  When this
switch is provided, a process-ID file (PID) is also written in this
directory unless the B<--pidfile> switch is provided.

=item B<--log-pathname>=I<FILE_PATH>

Use I<FILE_PATH> as the complete path to the log file.  The log file
is not rotated.

=back

=head2 Optional application-specific switches

The following switches are optional:

=over 4

=item B<--post-command>=I<COMMAND>

Run I<COMMAND> on a file once it has been successfully received.  The
following C<%>-conversions are supported in I<COMMAND>: C<%s> is
replaced with the full path of the transferred file in the destination
directory, C<%I> is replaced with the identifier of the B<rwsender>
that sent the file, and C<%%> is replaced with C<%>.  If any other
character follows C<%>, B<rwreceiver> exits with an error.  Note that
I<COMMAND> is only invoked on files in the destination directory;
however, at the time I<COMMAND> is invoked, B<rwreceiver> has
already copied the file into each of the duplicate destination
directories, if any.  See also the B<rwpollexec(8)> daemon.

=item B<--duplicate-destination>=I<DIR_PATH>

Create a duplicate of each transferred file in the directory I<DIR_PATH>.
This option may be specified multiple times to create multiple
duplicates.  This duplicate is made by a hard link to the file in the
destination-directory if possible, otherwise a complete copy is made
(see also B<--unique-duplicates>).  If there are errors copying the
file to this directory, the error is logged but the process continues
as if the transfer was successful.  (B<rwreceiver> considers a
transfer as failed only when the file cannot be created in the
destination-directory.)

=item B<--unique-duplicates>

Force the duplicate file created in each duplicate-destination
directory to be a complete copy of the file in the
destination-directory instead of a hard link to the file.  Using hard
links saves disk space and is faster than making a complete copy;
however, any modification-in-place to one file affects all files.
This switch is ignored when the B<--duplicate-destination> switch is
not provided.

=item B<--freespace-minimum>=I<SIZE>

Set the minimum amount free space (in bytes) to maintain on the file
system where the B<--destination-directory> is located.  B<rwreceiver>
delays processing of any file that would cause it to violate this
limit (see L</Disk Usage> above).  The default value of this switch is
0, which tells B<rwreceiver> not to monitor its disk usage.  See also
B<--space-maximum-percent>.

I<SIZE> may be given as an ordinary integer, or as a real number
followed by a suffix C<K>, C<M>, C<G>, or C<T>, which represents the
numerical value multiplied by 1,024 (kilo), 1,048,576 (mega),
1,073,741,824 (giga), and 1,099,511,627,776 (tera), respectively.  For
example, 1.5K represents 1,536 bytes, or one and one-half kilobytes.

=item B<--space-maximum-percent>=I<NUM>

Use no more than this percentage of the file system containing the
B<--destination-directory>.  The default is to use all of the file
system (100%).  B<rwreceiver> delays processing of files that would
cause it to violate this limit.  The I<NUM> parameter does not need to
be an integer.  See also B<--freespace-minimum> and L</Disk Usage>.

=back

=head2 Optional logging and daemon switches

The following are optional switches related to logging and running as
a daemon:

=over 4

=item B<--log-level>=I<LEVEL>

Set the severity of messages that are logged.  The levels from most
severe to least are: C<emerg>, C<alert>, C<crit>, C<err>, C<warning>,
C<notice>, C<info>, C<debug>.  The default is C<info>.

=item B<--log-sysfacility>=I<NUMBER>

Set the facility that B<syslog(3)> uses for logging messages.  This
switch takes a number as an argument.  The default is a value that
corresponds to C<LOG_USER> on the system where B<rwreceiver> is
running.  This switch produces an error unless
B<--log-destination>=syslog is specified.

=item B<--log-basename>=I<LOG_BASENAME>

Use I<LOG_BASENAME> in place of the application name in the name of
I<log> files in the log directory.  See the description of the
B<--log-directory> switch.  This switch does B<not> affect the name of
the process-ID file.

=item B<--log-post-rotate>=I<COMMAND>

Run I<COMMAND> on the previous day's log file after log rotation.
When this switch is not specified, the previous day's log file is
compressed with B<gzip(1)>.  When the switch is specified and
I<COMMAND> is the empty string, no action is taken on the log file.
Each occurrence of the string C<%s> in I<COMMAND> is replaced with the
full path to the log file, and each occurrence of C<%%> is replaced
with C<%>.  If any other character follows C<%>, B<rwreceiver> exits
with an error.  Specifying this switch without also using
B<--log-directory> is an error.

=item B<--pidfile>=I<FILE_PATH>

Set the complete path to the file in which B<rwreceiver> writes its
process ID (PID) when it is running as a daemon.  No PID file is
written when B<--no-daemon> is given.  When this switch is not
present, no PID file is written unless the B<--log-directory> switch
is specified, in which case the PID is written to
F<I<LOGPATH>/rwreceiver.pid>.

=item B<--no-chdir>

Do not change directory to the root directory.  When B<rwreceiver>
becomes a daemon process, it changes its current directory to the root
directory so as to avoid potentially running on a mounted file system.
Specifying B<--no-chdir> prevents this behavior, which may be useful
during debugging.  The application does not change its directory when
B<--no-daemon> is given.

=item B<--no-daemon>

Force B<rwreceiver> to run in the foreground---it does not become a
daemon process.  This may be useful during debugging.

=back

=head2 Help switches

The following switches provide help:

=over 4

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item RWRECEIVER_TLS_PASSWORD

Specifies the password to use to decrypt the PKCS#12 file specified in
the B<--tls-pkcs12> switch.  When this is not provided, a NULL
password is used.  Set this environment variable to the empty string
for an empty password.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwsender(8)>, B<rwpollexec(8)>, B<silk(7)>, B<gnutls-cli(1)>,
B<certtool(1)>, B<syslog(3)>, B<gzip(1)>,
I<SiLK Installation Handbook>

=cut

$SiLK: rwreceiver.pod a79eb3a80282 2018-12-13 20:50:23Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
