=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwsender> - Watch directory for files and transfer them to rwreceiver(s)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

To listen for incoming connections:

  rwsender --mode=server --server-port=[HOST:]PORT
        --client-ident=IDENT [--client-ident=IDENT ...]
        ...

To make outgoing connections:

  rwsender --mode=client --server-address=IDENT:HOST:PORT
        [--server-address=IDENT:HOST:PORT ...]
        ...


  rwsender  SERVER_MODE_OR_CLIENT_MODE_SWITCHES
        --identifier=IDENT --incoming-directory=DIR_PATH
        --processing-directory=DIR_PATH --error-directory=DIR_PATH
        [ --tls-ca=TRUST_FILE
          { { --tls-cert=CERTIFICATE_FILE --tls-key=KEY_FILE }
            | --tls-pkcs12=PKCS12_FILE }
          [--tls-priority=TLS_PRIORITY] [--tls-security=TLS_SECURITY]
          [--tls-crl=CRL_FILE] [--tls-debug-level=DB_LEVEL] ]
        [--local-directory=[[IDENT]:]DIR_PATH
          [--local-directory=[[IDENT]:]DIR_PATH ...]]
        [--unique-local-copies]
        [--filter=IDENT:REGEXP] [--priority=NUM:REGEXP]
        [--polling-interval=NUM]
        [--send-attempts=NUM] [--block-size=NUM]
        { --log-destination=DESTINATION
          | --log-pathname=FILE_PATH
          | --log-directory=DIR_PATH [--log-basename=LOG_BASENAME]
            [--log-post-rotate=COMMAND] }
        [--log-level=LEVEL] [--log-sysfacility=NUMBER]
        [--pidfile=FILE_PATH] [--no-chdir] [--no-daemon]

  rwsender --help

  rwsender --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwsender> is a daemon which watches an incoming directory for files.
As files are added to the incoming directory, they are moved into a
processing directory and then transferred over the network to one or
more B<rwreceiver(8)> processes.  Files in the incoming directory may
also be "transferred" to one or more local directories.

As B<rwsender> scans the incoming directory, it ignores a file if its
size is 0 bytes or if its name begins with a dot (C<.>).  On each
scan, if B<rwsender> detects a file name that was not present in the
previous scan, it records the name and size of the file.  If the file
has a different size on the next scan, the new size is recorded.  Once
the file has the same size on two consecutive scans, B<rwsender> moves
the file to the processing directory and queues it for transfer.

=head2 Interaction with B<rwreceiver>

Either B<rwsender> or B<rwreceiver> may act as the B<server> with the
other acting as the B<client>.  That is, an B<rwsender> server may
listen for connections from B<rwreceiver> clients, or an B<rwsender>
client may attempt to connect to one or more B<rwreceiver> servers.

In addition, each B<rwsender> and B<rwreceiver> is configured with an
identifier of its own and the identifier(s) of the B<rwreceiver>(s) or
B<rwsender>(s) that may connect to it.  The connection is closed if
the identifier provided by other process is not recognized.

Every B<rwsender> that communicates with the same B<rwreceiver> must
have a unique identifier; likewise, every B<rwreceiver> that
communicates with the same B<rwsender> must have a unique identifier.
Ideally, the identifier should provide some information about where
the B<rwsender> or B<rwreceiver> program is running and what sort of
data it is transferring.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or B<--arg> I<param>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=head2 Application-specific switches

The following set of switches are required:

=over 4

=item B<--identifier>=I<IDENT>

Use the name I<IDENT> when establishing a connection with an
B<rwreceiver> process.  The identifier should contain only printable,
non-whitespace characters; the following characters are illegal: colon
(C<:>), slash (C</> and C<\>), period (C<.>), and comma (C<,>).

=item B<--mode>=I<MODE>

Specify how the connection between B<rwsender> and B<rwreceiver>(s)
should be established.  When I<MODE> is B<server>, B<rwsender>
listens for connections from B<rwreceiver> clients; when I<MODE> is
B<client>, B<rwsender> attempts to connect to B<rwreceiver>
servers.

=item B<--incoming-directory>=I<DIR_PATH>

Periodically scan the directory I<DIR_PATH> for files to transfer.  As
B<rwsender> scans I<DIR_PATH>, it ignores a file if its name begins
with a dot (C<.>) or if its size is 0 bytes.  When a file is first
detected, its size is recorded, and the file must have the same size
for two consecutive scans before B<rwsender> will add it to sending
queue.  The interval between scans is set by B<--polling-interval>.
I<DIR_PATH> must be a complete directory path.

=item B<--processing-directory>=I<DIR_PATH>

Use I<DIR_PATH> as a location to cache files until they are successfully
transferred.  For each B<rwreceiver> I<IDENT> specified on the command
line, a subdirectory is created under I<DIR_PATH> to hold a copy of each
file that is to be sent to that B<rwreceiver>.  (B<rwsender> uses a
reference (a hard link) to the file instead of a copy of the file when
possible.)  I<DIR_PATH> must be a complete directory path.

=item B<--error-directory>=I<DIR_PATH>

Move a file that is rejected by an B<rwreceiver> (for example, because
it has a duplicate filename) to the subdirectory I<IDENT> of I<DIR_PATH>,
where I<IDENT> is the identifier of the B<rwreceiver> that rejected
the file.  I<DIR_PATH> must be a complete directory path.

=back

=head2 Server-mode switches

When running in B<server> mode, the following switches are required:

=over 4

=item B<--server-port>=B<[>I<HOST>B<:]>I<PORT>

Listen for incoming B<rwreceiver> client connections on I<PORT> as
I<HOST>.  If I<HOST> is omitted, B<rwsender> listens on any
address.  I<HOST> may be a name or an IP address; when I<HOST> is an
IPv6 address, it must be enclosed in square brackets.

=item B<--client-ident>=I<IDENT>

Allow connections from an B<rwreceiver> client whose identifier is
I<IDENT>.  This switch may be repeated to allow multiple B<rwreceiver>
clients to connect.  B<rwsender> closes the connection if an
B<rwreceiver> client connects and does not provide a valid identifier.

=back

=head2 Client-mode switch

When running in B<client> mode, the following switch is required:

=over 4

=item B<--server-address>=I<IDENT>:I<HOST>:I<PORT>

Attempt to connect to the B<rwreceiver> server listening to port
number I<PORT> on the machine I<HOST>.  B<rwsender> closes the
connection unless the B<rwreceiver> identifies itself as I<IDENT>.
This switch may be repeated to connect to multiple B<rwreceiver>
servers.  I<HOST> may be a name or an IP address; when I<HOST> is an
IPv6 address, it must be enclosed in square brackets.

=back

=head2 Transport Layer Security switches

It is possible to build SiLK with support for the GnuTLS Transport
Layer Security library (L<https://www.gnutls.org/>) which allows
B<rwsender> and B<rwreceiver> to use an encrypted/authenticated
channel for their communication.  When SiLK includes GnuTLS support,
the following switches are available.  To enable use of GnuTLS, specify
the B<--tls-ca> switch and either the B<--tls-pkcs12> switch or both
the B<--tls-cert> and B<--tls-key> switches.

=over 4

=item B<--tls-ca>=I<TRUST_FILE>

Set the trusted certificate authorities to those in I<TRUST_FILE>,
where I<TRUST_FILE> is the complete path to a file containing a
PEM-encoded list of certificates.  This list of authorities is used to
verify the certificate sent by B<rwreceiver>.  This switch must be
used in conjunction with either the B<--tls-pkcs12> switch or both the
B<--tls-cert> and the B<--tls-key> switches.

=item B<--tls-cert>=I<CERTIFICATE_FILE>

Set the certificate list (path) for B<rwsender>'s private key to the
list of certificates in I<CERTIFICATE_FILE>, where I<CERTIFICATE_FILE>
is the complete path to a file containing the PEM-encoded
certificates.  This switch may only be used in conjunction with the
B<--tls-ca> and B<--tls-key> switches.

=item B<--tls-key>=I<KEY_FILE>

Read B<rwsender>'s private encryption key for TLS from I<KEY_FILE>,
where I<KEY_FILE> is the complete path to a PEM-encoded file.  This
switch may only be used in conjunction with the B<--tls-ca> and
B<--tls-cert> switches.

=item B<--tls-pkcs12>=I<PKCS12_FILE>

Set B<rwsender>'s encryption certificate and private key for TLS to
the contents of I<PKCS12_FILE>, where I<PKCS12_FILE> is the complete
path to a file containing the PKCS#12 contents in DER-format.  This
switch may only be used in conjunction with the B<--tls-ca> switch.
B<rwsender> uses the value in the RWSENDER_TLS_PASSWORD environment
variable to decrypt the PKCS#12 file.  If this variable is not set,
B<rwsender> assumes the password is the empty string.

=item B<--tls-priority>=I<TLS_PRIORITY>

Set the preference order (priority) for ciphers, key exchange methods,
message authentication codes, and compression methods to those in
I<TLS_PRIORITY>.  This switch is optional; the default value is
C<NORMAL>.  The argument is parsed by the GnuTLS library, and the
available arguments depend on the version of GnuTLS linked with SiLK.
Detailed information on the format of the argument is available in the
GnuTLS documentation under I<Priority Strings> (e.g.,
L<https://gnutls.org/manual/html_node/Priority-Strings.html>) provides
the set for the most recent version of GnuTLS; the values used at your
site may be different).  See also the output of running
B<gnutls-cli(1)> with the B<--priority-list> switch.  I<Since SiLK
3.18.0.>

=item B<--tls-security>=I<TLS_SECURITY>

Set the security level to use when generating Diffie-Hellman
parameters to I<TLS_SECURITY>, where I<TLS_SECURITY> is one of C<low>,
C<medium>, C<high>, or C<ultra>.  This switch is optional, and when
not specified a value of C<medium> is used.  For the meaning of these
values see I<Selecting cryptographic key sizes> in the GnuTLS
documentation at your site (e.g.,
L<https://gnutls.org/manual/html_node/Selecting-cryptographic-key-sizes.html>).
I<Since SiLK 3.18.0.>

=item B<--tls-crl>=I<CRL_FILE>

Update the list of trusted certificates with the certificate
revocation lists contained in I<CRL_FILE>, where I<CRL_FILE> is the
complete path to a file containing PEM-encoded list of CRLs.  This
switch is optional.  I<Since SiLK 3.18.0.>

=item B<--tls-debug-level>=I<DB_LEVEL>

Set the debugging level used internally by the GnuTLS library to
I<DB_LEVEL>, an integer between 0 and 99 inclusive.  The messages are
written to the log destation at the C<info> level.  The default value
of 0 disables debugging.  Larger values may reveal sensitive
information and should be used carefully.  A value above 10 enables
all debugging options.  I<Since SiLK 3.18.0.>

=back

=head2 Required logging switches

One of the following logging switches is required:

=over 4

=item B<--log-destination>=I<DESTINATION>

Specify the destination where logging messages are written.  When
I<DESTINATION> begins with a slash C</>, it is treated as a file
system path and all log messages are written to that file; there is no
log rotation.  When I<DESTINATION> does not begin with C</>, it must
be one of the following strings:

=over 4

=item C<none>

Messages are not written anywhere.

=item C<stdout>

Messages are written to the standard output.

=item C<stderr>

Messages are written to the standard error.

=item C<syslog>

Messages are written using the B<syslog(3)> facility.

=item C<both>

Messages are written to the syslog facility and to the standard error
(this option is not available on all platforms).

=back

=item B<--log-directory>=I<DIR_PATH>

Use I<DIR_PATH> as the directory where the log files are written.
I<DIR_PATH> must be a complete directory path.  The log files have the
form

 DIR_PATH/LOG_BASENAME-YYYYMMDD.log

where I<YYYYMMDD> is the current date and I<LOG_BASENAME> is the
application name or the value passed to the B<--log-basename> switch
when provided.  The log files are rotated: At midnight local time, a
new log is opened, the previous file is closed, and the command
specified by B<--log-post-rotate> is invoked on the previous day's log
file.  (Old log files are not removed by B<rwsender>; the
administrator should use another tool to remove them.)  When this
switch is provided, a process-ID file (PID) is also written in this
directory unless the B<--pidfile> switch is provided.

=item B<--log-pathname>=I<FILE_PATH>

Use I<FILE_PATH> as the complete path to the log file.  The log file
is not rotated.

=back

=head2 Optional application-specific switches

These are application-specific switches that are not required:

=over 4

=item B<--local-directory>=[[I<IDENT>]:]I<DIR_PATH>

Create a duplicate of each incoming file in the directory I<DIR_PATH>.
This switch may be specified multiple times to create multiple
duplicates.  The duplicate is made by a reference (a hard link) to the
file in the processing-directory if possible, otherwise a complete
copy is made.  (Note that any modification-in-place to a file
reference affects all references to that file; use
B<--unique-local-copies> to avoid this).  If I<IDENT> is specified,
filters may be used to determine which files get copied to
I<DIR_PATH>.  See L<--filter|/"B<--filter>=I<IDENT>:I<REGEXP>"> for
filter details.  When I<DIR_PATH> contains the colon character and no
I<IDENT> is wanted, a single colon may precede I<DIR_PATH> to
designate an empty I<IDENT>.

=item B<--unique-local-copies>

Force the duplicate file created in each local-directory to be a
complete copy of the file in the processing-directory instead of a
reference (a hard link) to the file.  Using references saves disk
space and is faster than making a complete copy; however, any
modification-in-place to one file affects all files.  B<rwsender>
always makes a complete copy when it is unable to make a reference.
This switch is ignored when the B<--local-directory> switch is not
provided.

=item B<--filter>=I<IDENT>:I<REGEXP>

Configure B<rwsender> to transfer files matching the regular
expression I<REGEXP> to the B<rwreceiver> whose identifier is
I<IDENT>, or to copy files to the local directory labeled as I<IDENT>.
This switch may be repeated.  When this switch is not provided, all
B<rwreceiver>s and local directories get all files.  When this switch
is provided, any files not matching a I<REGEXP> are left in the
incoming directory and are not transferred.

The regular expression must be a POSIX 1003.2 I<modern> or I<extended>
regular expressions, roughly akin to those used by B<egrep(1)>.
Documentation might be found in the B<regex(7)> or B<re_format(7)>
manual pages on your system.

The filter is only applied to files in the incoming-directory.  Once a
file has been moved into an B<rwreceiver>-specific subdirectory of the
processing-directory, restarting B<rwsender> with a different set of
B<--filter> switches does not affect the files previously queued for
each B<rwreceiver>.  To apply the filters to unsent files, you must
stop the B<rwsender> process, move all files from the subdirectories
of the processing-directory to the incoming-directory, and restart the
B<rwsender> process.

=item B<--priority>=I<NUM>:I<REGEXP>

Set the priority of files that match I<REGEXP> to I<NUM>.  I<NUM> must
be an integer between 0 and 100 inclusive.  In the current version of
B<rwsender>, priorities 0 through 50 get grouped into a single I<low>
priority bin, and priorities 51 through 100 get grouped into a single
I<high> priority bin.  Files in the high priority bin are generally
be sent before files in the low priority bin.  The default priority of
a file is 50.  This switch may be repeated for multiple priorities.

=item B<--polling-interval>=I<NUM>

Configure B<rwsender> to check the incoming directory for new files
every I<NUM> seconds.  The default polling interval is 15 seconds.

=item B<--send-attempts>=I<NUM>

For each file going to an B<rwreceiver>, make I<NUM> attempts to open
the file, map its contents, and send the contents to that
B<rwreceiver>.  After I<NUM> attempts, the file is ignored by
B<rwsender> but the file remains in the B<rwreceiver>-specific
subdirectory of the processing directory.  Unless the file is manually
removed from the processing directory, B<rwsender> again attempts to
send the file when B<rwsender> is restarted.  The limit may be set to
a value from 1 to 65535.  When I<NUM> is 0, there is no limit.  The
default number of attempts is 5.

=item B<--block-size>=I<NUM>

Specify the chunk size in bytes that B<rwsender> uses when sending
files to B<rwreceiver>s.  The default number of bytes is 8192; the
valid range is 256 to 65535.

=back

=head2 Optional logging and daemon switches

The following are optional switches related to logging and running as
a daemon:

=over 4

=item B<--log-level>=I<LEVEL>

Set the severity of messages that are logged.  The levels from most
severe to least are: C<emerg>, C<alert>, C<crit>, C<err>, C<warning>,
C<notice>, C<info>, C<debug>.  The default is C<info>.

=item B<--log-sysfacility>=I<NUMBER>

Set the facility that B<syslog(3)> uses for logging messages.  This
switch takes a number as an argument.  The default is a value that
corresponds to C<LOG_USER> on the system where B<rwsender> is running.
This switch produces an error unless B<--log-destination>=syslog is
specified.

=item B<--log-basename>=I<LOG_BASENAME>

Use I<LOG_BASENAME> in place of the application name in the name of
I<log> files in the log directory.  See the description of the
B<--log-directory> switch.  This switch does B<not> affect the name of
the process-ID file.

=item B<--log-post-rotate>=I<COMMAND>

Run I<COMMAND> on the previous day's log file after log rotation.
When this switch is not specified, the previous day's log file is
compressed with B<gzip(1)>.  When the switch is specified and
I<COMMAND> is the empty string, no action is taken on the log file.
Each occurrence of the string C<%s> in I<COMMAND> is replaced with the
full path to the log file, and each occurrence of C<%%> is replaced
with C<%>.  If any other character follows C<%>, B<rwsender> exits
with an error.  Specifying this switch without also using
B<--log-directory> is an error.

=item B<--pidfile>=I<FILE_PATH>

Set the complete path to the file in which B<rwsender> writes its
process ID (PID) when it is running as a daemon.  No PID file is
written when B<--no-daemon> is given.  When this switch is not
present, no PID file is written unless the B<--log-directory> switch
is specified, in which case the PID is written to
F<I<LOGPATH>/rwsender.pid>.

=item B<--no-chdir>

Do not change directory to the root directory.  When B<rwsender>
becomes a daemon process, it changes its current directory to the root
directory so as to avoid potentially running on a mounted file system.
Specifying B<--no-chdir> prevents this behavior, which may be useful
during debugging.  The application does not change its directory when
B<--no-daemon> is given.

=item B<--no-daemon>

Force B<rwsender> to run in the foreground---it does not become a
daemon process.  This may be useful during debugging.

=back

=head2 Help switches

The following switches provide help:

=over 4

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item RWSENDER_TLS_PASSWORD

Specifies the password to use to decrypt the PKCS#12 file specified in
the B<--tls-pkcs12> switch.  When this is not provided, a NULL
password is used.  Set this environment variable to the empty string
for an empty password.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwreceiver(8)>, B<silk(7)>, B<gnutls-cli(1)>, B<certtool(1)>,
B<syslog(3)>, B<egrep(1)>, B<gzip(1)>, B<regex(7)>, B<re_format(7)>,
I<SiLK Installation Handbook>

=head1 BUGS

An attempt should be made to use a unique name for each file put into
the incoming directory.  When a file is added to the incoming
directory that has the same name as a file in the processing
directory, the file added to the incoming directory replaces the
existing file in the processing directory.

=cut

$SiLK: rwsender.pod a79eb3a80282 2018-12-13 20:50:23Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
