=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwaggbagcat> - Output a binary Aggregate Bag file as text

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwaggbagcat [--timestamp-format=FORMAT] [--ip-format=FORMAT]
        [--integer-sensors] [--integer-tcp-flags]
        [--no-titles] [--no-columns] [--column-separator=C]
        [--no-final-delimiter] [{--delimited | --delimited=C}]
        [--output-path=PATH] [--pager=PAGER_PROG]
        [--site-config-file=FILENAME]
        [AGGBAGFILE [AGGBAGFILE...]]

  rwaggbagcat --help

  rwaggbagcat --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwaggbagcat> reads a binary Aggregate Bag as created by
B<rwaggbag(1)> or B<rwaggbagbuild(1)>, converts it to text, and
outputs it to the standard output, the pager, or the specified file.

B<rwaggbagcat> reads the I<AGGBAGFILE>s specified on the command line;
if no I<AGGBAGFILE> arguments are given, B<rwaggbagcat> attempts to
read an Aggregate Bag from the standard input.  To read the standard
input in addition to the named files, use C<-> or C<stdin> as an
I<AGGBAGFILE> name.  If any input does not contain an Aggregate Bag
file, B<rwaggbagcat> prints an error to the standard error and exits
abnormally.

When multiple I<AGGBAGFILE>s are specified on the command line, each
is handled individually.  To process the files as a single Aggregate
Bag, use B<rwaggbagtool(1)> to combine the Aggregate Bags and pipe the
output of B<rwaggbagtool> into B<rwaggbagcat>.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or S<B<--arg> I<param>>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=over 4

=item B<--timestamp-format>=I<FORMAT>

Specify the format, timezone, and/or modifier to use when printing
timestamps.  When this switch is not specified, the
SILK_TIMESTAMP_FORMAT environment variable is checked for a format,
timezone, and modifier.  If it is empty or contains invalid values,
timestamps are printed in the default format, and the timezone is UTC
unless SiLK was compiled with local timezone support.  I<FORMAT> is a
comma-separated list of a format, a timezone, and/or a modifier.  The
format is one of:

=over 4

=item default

Print the timestamps as I<YYYY>/I<MM>/I<DD>TI<hh>:I<mm>:I<ss>.I<sss>.

=item iso

Print the timestamps as I<YYYY>-I<MM>-I<DD> I<hh>:I<mm>:I<ss>.I<sss>.

=item m/d/y

Print the timestamps as I<MM>/I<DD>/I<YYYY> I<hh>:I<mm>:I<ss>.I<sss>.

=item epoch

Print the timestamps as the number of seconds since 00:00:00 UTC on
1970-01-01.

=back

When a timezone is specified, it is used regardless of the default
timezone support compiled into SiLK.  The timezone is one of:

=over 4

=item utc

Use Coordinated Universal Time to print timestamps.

=item local

Use the TZ environment variable or the local timezone.

=back

=item B<--ip-format>=I<FORMAT>

Specify how IP addresses are printed, where I<FORMAT> is a
comma-separated list of the arguments described below.  When this
switch is not specified, the SILK_IP_FORMAT environment variable is
checked for a value and that format is used if it is valid.  The
default I<FORMAT> is C<canonical>.

=over 4

=item canonical

Print IP addresses in the canonical format.  If the column is IPv4,
use dot-separated decimal (C<192.0.2.1>).  If the column is IPv6, use
colon-separated hexadecimal (C<2001:db8::1>) or a mixed IPv4-IPv6
representation for IPv4-mapped IPv6 addresses (the ::ffff:0:0/96
netblock, e.g., C<::ffff:192.0.2.1>) and IPv4-compatible IPv6
addresses (the ::/96 netblock other than ::/127, e.g.,
C<::192.0.2.1>).

=item no-mixed

Print IP addresses in the canonical format (C<192.0.2.1> or
C<2001:db8::1>) but do not used the mixed IPv4-IPv6 representations.
For example, use C<::ffff:c000:201> instead of C<::ffff:192.0.2.1>.
I<Since SiLK 3.17.0>.

=item decimal

Print IP addresses as integers in decimal format.  For example, print
C<192.0.2.1> and C<2001:db8::1> as C<3221225985> and
C<42540766411282592856903984951653826561>, respectively.

=item hexadecimal

Print IP addresses as integers in hexadecimal format.  For example,
print C<192.0.2.1> and C<2001:db8::1> as C<c00000201> and
C<20010db8000000000000000000000001>, respectively.

=item zero-padded

Make all IP address strings contain the same number of characters by
padding numbers with leading zeros.  For example, print C<192.0.2.1>
and C<2001:db8::1> as C<192.000.002.001> and
C<2001:0db8:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:0001>, respectively.  For IPv6
addresses, this setting implies C<no-mixed>, so that
C<::ffff:192.0.2.1> is printed as
C<0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:ffff:c000:0201>.  As of SiLK 3.17.0, may be
combined with any of the above, including C<decimal> and
C<hexadecimal>.

=back

The following arguments modify certain IP addresses prior to printing.
These arguments may be combined with the above formats.

=over 4

=item map-v4

Change an IPv4 column to IPv4-mapped IPv6 addresses (addresses in the
::ffff:0:0/96 netblock) prior to formatting.  I<Since SiLK 3.17.0>.

=item unmap-v6

For an IPv6 column, change any IPv4-mapped IPv6 addresses (addresses
in the ::ffff:0:0/96 netblock) to IPv4 addresses prior to formatting.
I<Since SiLK 3.17.0>.

=back

The following argument is also available:

=over 4

=item force-ipv6

Set I<FORMAT> to C<map-v4>,C<no-mixed>.

=back

=item B<--integer-sensors>

Print the integer ID of the sensor rather than its name.

=item B<--integer-tcp-flags>

Print the TCP flag fields (flags, initialFlags, sessionFlags) as an
integer value.  Typically, the characters C<F,S,R,P,A,U,E,C> are used
to represent the TCP flags.

=item B<--no-titles>

Turn off column titles.  By default, titles are printed.

=item B<--no-columns>

Disable fixed-width columnar output.

=item B<--column-separator>=I<C>

Use specified character between columns and after the final column.
When this switch is not specified, the default of 'B<|>' is used.

=item B<--no-final-delimiter>

Do not print the column separator after the final column.  Normally a
delimiter is printed.

=item B<--delimited>

=item B<--delimited>=I<C>

Run as if B<--no-columns> B<--no-final-delimiter> B<--column-sep>=I<C>
had been specified.  That is, disable fixed-width columnar output; if
character I<C> is provided, it is used as the delimiter between
columns instead of the default 'B<|>'.

=item B<--output-path>=I<PATH>

Write the textual output to I<PATH>, where I<PATH> is a filename, a
named pipe, the keyword C<stderr> to write the output to the standard
error, or the keyword C<stdout> or C<-> to write the output to the
standard output (and bypass the paging program).  If I<PATH> names an
existing file, B<rwaggbagcat> exits with an error unless the
SILK_CLOBBER environment variable is set, in which case I<PATH> is
overwritten.  If this option is not given, the output is either sent
to the pager or written to the standard output.

=item B<--pager>=I<PAGER_PROG>

When output is to a terminal, invoke the program I<PAGER_PROG> to view
the output one screen full at a time.  This switch overrides the
SILK_PAGER environment variable, which in turn overrides the PAGER
variable.  If the B<--output-path> switch is given or if the value of
the pager is determined to be the empty string, no paging is performed
and all output is written to the terminal.

=item B<--site-config-file>=I<FILENAME>

Read the SiLK site configuration from the named file I<FILENAME>.
When this switch is not provided, B<rwaggbagcat> searches for the site
configuration file in the locations specified in the L</FILES>
section.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following examples, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

The formatting switches on B<rwaggbagcat> are similar to those on the
other SiLK tools.

First, use B<rwaggbag(1)> to create an Aggregate Bag file from the
SiLK Flow file F<data.rw>:

 $ rwaggbag --key=sport,dport --counter=sum-pack,sum-byte \
        --output-path=ab.aggbag data.rw

To print Aggregate Bag:

 $ rwaggbagcat ab.aggbag | head -4
 sPort|dPort|    sum-packets|           sum-bytes|
     0|    0|          73452|             6169968|
     0|  769|          15052|              842912|
     0|  771|          14176|              793856|

To produce column separated data:

 rwaggbagcat --delimited=, /tmp/ab.aggbag | head -4
 sPort,dPort,sum-packets,sum-bytes
 0,0,73452,6169968
 0,769,15052,842912
 0,771,14176,793856

To remove the title:

 $ rwaggbagcat --no-title ab.aggbag | head -4
     0|    0|          73452|             6169968|
     0|  769|          15052|              842912|
     0|  771|          14176|              793856|
     0| 2048|          14356|             1205904|

To change the format of IP addresses:

 $ rwaggbag --key=sipv4,dipv4 --counter=sum-pack,sum-byte data.rw   \
   | rwaggbagcat --ip-format=decimal | head -4
      sIPv4|     dIPv4|    sum-packets|           sum-bytes|
  168047851|3232295339|            255|               18260|
  168159227|3232293505|            331|              536169|
  168381813|3232282689|            563|               55386|

To change the format of timestamps:

 $ rwaggbag --key=stime,etime --counter=sum-pack,sum-byte data.rwf  \
   | rwaggbagcat --timestamp-format=epoch | head -4
      sTime|     eTime|    sum-packets|           sum-bytes|
 1234396802|1234396802|              2|                 259|
 1234396802|1234398594|            526|               38736|
 1234396803|1234396803|              9|                 504|

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_IP_FORMAT

This environment variable is used as the value for B<--ip-format> when
that switch is not provided.

=item SILK_TIMESTAMP_FORMAT

This environment variable is used as the value for
B<--timestamp-format> when that switch is not provided.

=item SILK_CLOBBER

The SiLK tools normally refuse to overwrite existing files.  Setting
SILK_CLOBBER to a non-empty value removes this restriction.

=item SILK_PAGER

When set to a non-empty string, B<rwaggbagcat> automatically invokes
this program to display its output a screen at a time.  If set to an
empty string, B<rwaggbagcat> does not automatically page its output.

=item PAGER

When set and SILK_PAGER is not set, B<rwaggbagcat> automatically
invokes this program to display its output a screen at a time.

=item SILK_CONFIG_FILE

This environment variable is used as the value for the
B<--site-config-file> when that switch is not provided.

=item SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR

This environment variable specifies the root directory of data
repository.  As described in the L</FILES> section, B<rwaggbagcat> may
use this environment variable when searching for the SiLK site
configuration file.

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the install tree.  When
searching for configuration files and plug-ins, B<rwaggbagcat> may use
this environment variable.  See the L</FILES> section for details.

=item TZ

When the argument to the B<--timestamp-format> switch includes
C<local> or when a SiLK installation is built to use the local
timezone, the value of the TZ environment variable determines the
timezone in which B<rwaggbagcat> displays timestamps.  (If both of
those are false, the TZ environment variable is ignored.)  If the TZ
environment variable is not set, the machine's default timezone is
used.  Setting TZ to the empty string or 0 causes timestamps to be
displayed in UTC.  For system information on the TZ variable, see
B<tzset(3)> or B<environ(7)>.  (To determine if SiLK was built with
support for the local timezone, check the C<Timezone support> value in
the output of B<rwaggbagcat --version>.)

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<${SILK_CONFIG_FILE}>

=item F<${SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR}/silk.conf>

=item F<@SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR@/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk.conf>

Possible locations for the SiLK site configuration file which are
checked when the B<--site-config-file> switch is not provided.

=back

=head1 NOTES

B<rwaggbagcat> and the other Aggregate Bag tools were introduced in
SiLK 3.15.0.

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwaggbag(1)>, B<rwaggbagbuild(1)>, B<rwaggbagtool(1)>, B<silk(7)>,
B<tzset(3)>, B<environ(7)>

=cut

$SiLK: rwaggbagcat.pod 9e3cbf975420 2019-09-24 14:42:59Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
