=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwnetmask> - Zero out lower bits of IP addresses in SiLK Flow records

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwnetmask [--4sip-prefix-length=N] [--6sip-prefix-length=N]
        [--4dip-prefix-length=N] [--6dip-prefix-length=N]
        [--4nhip-prefix-length=N] [--6nhip-prefix-length=N]
        [--sip-prefix-length=N] [--dip-prefix-length=N]
        [--nhip-prefix-length=N] [--output-path=PATH]
        [--print-filenames] [--ipv6-policy=POLICY]
        [--note-add=TEXT] [--note-file-add=FILE]
        [--compression-method=COMP_METHOD]
        [--site-config-file=FILENAME]
        {[--xargs] | [--xargs=FILENAME] | [FILE [FILE ...]]}

  rwnetmask --help

  rwnetmask --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwnetmask> reads SiLK Flow records, sets the prefix of the source
IP, destination IP, and/or next hop IP to the specified value(s) by
masking the least significant bits of the address(es), and writes the
modified SiLK Flow records to the specified output path.  Modifying
the IP addresses allows one to group IPs into arbitrary CIDR blocks.
Multiple prefix-lengths may be specified; at least one must be
specified.

When SiLK is compiled with IPv6 support, a separate mask can be
specified for IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.  Records are processed using
the IP-version in which they are read.  The B<--ipv6-policy> switch
can be used to force the records into a particular IP-version or to
ignore records of a particular IP-version.

B<rwnetmask> reads SiLK Flow records from the files named on the
command line or from the standard input when no file names are
specified and B<--xargs> is not present.  To read the standard input
in addition to the named files, use C<-> or C<stdin> as a file name.
If an input file name ends in C<.gz>, the file is uncompressed as it
is read.  When the B<--xargs> switch is provided, B<rwnetmask> reads
the names of the files to process from the named text file or from the
standard input if no file name argument is provided to the switch.
The input to B<--xargs> must contain one file name per line.

When no output path is specified and the standard output is not
connected to a terminal, B<rwnetmask> writes the records to the
standard output.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or S<B<--arg> I<param>>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

One of these switches must be provided:

=over 4

=item B<--4sip-prefix-length>=I<N>

=item B<--sip-prefix-length>=I<N>

For IPv4 addresses, specify the number of most significant bits of the
source address to keep.  The default is to not mask off any bits
(i.e., I<N>=32).

=item B<--4dip-prefix-length>=I<N>

=item B<--dip-prefix-length>=I<N>

For IPv4 addresses, specify the number of most significant bits of the
destination address to keep.  The default is to not mask off any bits
(i.e., I<N>=32).

=item B<--4nhip-prefix-length>=I<N>

=item B<--nhip-prefix-length>=I<N>

For IPv4 addresses, specify the number of most significant bits of the
next-hop address to keep.  The default is to not mask off any bits
(i.e., I<N>=32).

=item B<--6sip-prefix-length>=I<N>

For IPv6 addresses, specify the number of most significant bits of the
source address to keep.  The default is to not mask off any bits
(i.e., I<N>=128).

=item B<--6dip-prefix-length>=I<N>

For IPv6 addresses, specify the number of most significant bits of the
destination address to keep.  The default is to not mask off any bits
(i.e., I<N>=128).

=item B<--6nhip-prefix-length>=I<N>

For IPv6 addresses, specify the number of most significant bits of the
next-hop address to keep.  The default is to not mask off any bits
(i.e., I<N>=128).

=back

These switches are optional:

=over 4

=item B<--output-path>=I<PATH>

Write the binary SiLK Flow records to I<PATH>, where I<PATH> is a
filename, a named pipe, the keyword C<stderr> to write the output to
the standard error, or the keyword C<stdout> or C<-> to write the
output to the standard output.  If I<PATH> names an existing file,
B<rwrwnetmask> exits with an error unless the SILK_CLOBBER environment
variable is set, in which case I<PATH> is overwritten.  If this switch
is not given, the output is written to the standard output.
Attempting to write the binary output to a terminal causes
B<rwrwnetmask> to exit with an error.

=item B<--print-filenames>

Print to the standard error the names of the input files as the files
are opened.

=item B<--ipv6-policy>=I<POLICY>

Determine how IPv4 and IPv6 flows are handled when SiLK has been
compiled with IPv6 support.  When the switch is not provided, the
SILK_IPV6_POLICY environment variable is checked for a policy.  If it
is also unset or contains an invalid policy, the I<POLICY> is
B<mix>.  When SiLK has not been compiled with IPv6 support, IPv6
flows are always ignored, regardless of the value passed to this
switch or in the SILK_IPV6_POLICY variable.  The supported values for
I<POLICY> are:

=over

=item ignore

Ignore any flow record marked as IPv6, regardless of the IP addresses
it contains.  Only records marked as IPv4 will be processed.

=item asv4

Convert IPv6 flow records that contain addresses in the ::ffff:0:0/96
netblock (that is, IPv4-mapped IPv6 addresses) to IPv4 and ignore all
other IPv6 flow records.

=item mix

Process the input as a mixture of IPv4 and IPv6 flows.

=item force

Convert IPv4 flow records to IPv6, mapping the IPv4 addresses into the
::ffff:0:0/96 netblock.

=item only

Process only flow records that are marked as IPv6 and ignore IPv4 flow
records in the input.

=back

=item B<--note-add>=I<TEXT>

Add the specified I<TEXT> to the header of the output file as an
annotation.  This switch may be repeated to add multiple annotations
to a file.  To view the annotations, use the B<rwfileinfo(1)> tool.

=item B<--note-file-add>=I<FILENAME>

Open I<FILENAME> and add the contents of that file to the header of
the output file as an annotation.    This switch may be repeated to
add multiple annotations.  Currently the application makes no effort
to ensure that I<FILENAME> contains text; be careful that you do not
attempt to add a SiLK data file as an annotation.

=item B<--compression-method>=I<COMP_METHOD>

Specify the compression library to use when writing output files.  If
this switch is not given, the value in the SILK_COMPRESSION_METHOD
environment variable is used if the value names an available
compression method.  When no compression method is specified,
output to the standard output or to named pipes is not compressed, and
output to files is compressed using the default chosen when SiLK was
compiled.  The valid values for I<COMP_METHOD> are determined by which
external libraries were found when SiLK was compiled.  To see the
available compression methods and the default method, use the
B<--help> or B<--version> switch.  SiLK can support the following
I<COMP_METHOD> values when the required libraries are available.

=over 4

=item none

Do not compress the output using an external library.

=item zlib

Use the B<zlib(3)> library for compressing the output, and always
compress the output regardless of the destination.  Using zlib
produces the smallest output files at the cost of speed.

=item lzo1x

Use the I<lzo1x> algorithm from the LZO real time compression library
for compression, and always compress the output regardless of the
destination.  This compression provides good compression with less
memory and CPU overhead.

=item snappy

Use the I<snappy> library for compression, and always compress the
output regardless of the destination.  This compression provides good
compression with less memory and CPU overhead.  I<Since SiLK 3.13.0.>

=item best

Use lzo1x if available, otherwise use snappy if available, otherwise
use zlib if available.  Only compress the output when writing to a
file.

=back

=item B<--site-config-file>=I<FILENAME>

Read the SiLK site configuration from the named file I<FILENAME>.
When this switch is not provided, B<rwnetmask> searches for the site
configuration file in the locations specified in the L</FILES>
section.

=item B<--xargs>

=item B<--xargs>=I<FILENAME>

Read the names of the input files from I<FILENAME> or from the
standard input if I<FILENAME> is not provided.  The input is expected
to have one filename per line.  B<rwnetmask> opens each named file in
turn and reads records from it as if the filenames had been listed on
the command line.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following example, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

To summarize the TCP traffic from your network to each /24 on
the Internet, use:

 $ rwfilter --type=out,outweb --proto=6 --pass=stdout       \
   | rwnetmask --dip-prefix-length 24                       \
   | rwaddrcount --use-dest --sort --print-rec
 IP Address| Bytes|Packets|Records|         Start Time|...
 10.10.35.0|  2345|     52|      6|01/15/2003 19:30:31|
  10.23.3.0|   118|      2|      1|01/16/2003 19:38:40|
  10.23.4.0| 20858|    263|     16|01/16/2003 16:54:25|
 10.31.49.0|266920|   3885|   1092|01/11/2003 02:04:11|
 10.126.7.0| 36912|    260|      9|01/16/2003 17:03:28|
 ....

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_IPV6_POLICY

This environment variable is used as the value for B<--ipv6-policy>
when that switch is not provided.

=item SILK_CLOBBER

The SiLK tools normally refuse to overwrite existing files.  Setting
SILK_CLOBBER to a non-empty value removes this restriction.

=item SILK_COMPRESSION_METHOD

This environment variable is used as the value for
B<--compression-method> when that switch is not provided.  I<Since
SiLK 3.13.0.>

=item SILK_CONFIG_FILE

This environment variable is used as the value for the
B<--site-config-file> when that switch is not provided.

=item SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR

This environment variable specifies the root directory of data
repository.  As described in the L</FILES> section, B<rwnetmask> may
use this environment variable when searching for the SiLK site
configuration file.

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the install tree.  When
searching for configuration files, B<rwnetmask> may use this
environment variable.  See the L</FILES> section for details.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<${SILK_CONFIG_FILE}>

=item F<${SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR}/silk.conf>

=item F<@SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR@/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk.conf>

Possible locations for the SiLK site configuration file which are
checked when the B<--site-config-file> switch is not provided.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwfileinfo(1)>, B<silk(7)>, B<zlib(3)>

=cut

$SiLK: rwnetmask.pod b0e7e8c70cb5 2017-12-15 19:38:06Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
