=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwtotal> - Count how much traffic matched specific keys

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwtotal {--sip-first-8 | --sip-first-16 | --sip-first-24 |
        --sip-last-8 | --sip-last-16 | --dip-first-8 |
        --dip-first-16 | --dip-first-24 | --dip-last-8 |
        --dip-last-16 | --sport | --dport | --proto | --packets |
        --bytes | --duration | --icmp-code}
        [--summation] [--min-bytes=COUNT] [--max-bytes=COUNT]
        [--min-packets=COUNT] [--max-packets=COUNT]
        [--min-records=COUNT] [--max-records=COUNT] [--skip-zeroes]
        [--no-titles] [--no-columns] [--column-separator=CHAR]
        [--no-final-delimiter] [{--delimited | --delimited=CHAR}]
        [--print-filenames] [--copy-input=PATH] [--output-path=PATH]
        [--pager=PAGER_PROG] [--site-config-file=FILENAME]
        {[--xargs] | [--xargs=FILENAME] | [FILE [FILE ...]]}

  rwtotal --help

  rwtotal --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwtotal> reads SiLK Flow records, bins those records by the
user-specified specified key, computes the volume per bin (record
count and sums of packets and bytes), and prints the bins and their
volumes.

B<rwtotal> reads SiLK Flow records from the files named on the command
line or from the standard input when no file names are specified and
B<--xargs> is not present.  To read the standard input in addition to
the named files, use C<-> or C<stdin> as a file name.  If an input
file name ends in C<.gz>, the file is uncompressed as it is read.
When the B<--xargs> switch is provided, B<rwtotal> reads the names of
the files to process from the named text file or from the standard
input if no file name argument is provided to the switch.  The input
to B<--xargs> must contain one file name per line.

By default, B<rwtotal> prints a bin for every possible key, even when
the volume for that bin is zero.  Use the B<--skip-zeroes> switch to
suppress the printing of these empty bins.

Use the B<--summation> switch to include a row giving the volume for
all flow records.

The maximum key value that B<rwtotal> supports is 16,777,215.  When
the key field is B<--bytes> or B<--packets>, B<rwtotal> will create a
bin for all unique values up to 16,777,214.  The final bin
(16,777,215) will consist of all values greater than 16,777,214.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or S<B<--arg> I<param>>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

One and only one of the following counting keys is required:

=over 4

=item B<--sip-first-8>

Key on the first 8 bits of the source IP address

=item B<--sip-first-16>

Key on the first 16 bits of the source IP address

=item B<--sip-first-24>

Key on the first 24 bits of the source IP address

=item B<--sip-last-8>

Key on the last 8 bits of the source IP address

=item B<--sip-last-16>

Key on the last 16 bits of the source IP address

=item B<--dip-first-8>

Key on the first 8 bits of the destination IP address

=item B<--dip-first-16>

Key on the first 16 bits of the destination IP address

=item B<--dip-first-24>

Key on the first 24 bits of the destination IP address

=item B<--dip-last-8>

Key on the last 8 bits of the destination IP address

=item B<--dip-last-16>

Key on the last 16 bits of the destination IP address

=item B<--sport>

Key on the source port.

=item B<--dport>

Key on the destination port.

=item B<--proto>

Key on the protocol.

=item B<--packets>

Key on the number of packets in the record

=item B<--bytes>

Key on the number of bytes in the record

=item B<--duration>

Key on the duration of the record.

=item B<--icmp-code>

Key on the ICMP type and code.  This switch will assume
that all incoming records are ICMP.

=back

The following options affect the output:

=over 4

=item B<--summation>

Print as the final row a total of the values in each column.

=item B<--min-bytes>=I<COUNT>

Disable printing of bins with fewer than I<COUNT> bytes.  By default,
all bins are printed.

=item B<--max-bytes>=I<COUNT>

Disable printing of bins with more than I<COUNT> bytes.  By default,
all bins are printed.

=item B<--min-packets>=I<COUNT>

Disable printing of bins with fewer than I<COUNT> packets.  By
default, all bins are printed.

=item B<--max-packets>=I<COUNT>

Disable printing of bins with more than I<COUNT> packets.  By default,
all bins are printed.

=item B<--min-records>=I<COUNT>

Disable printing of bins with fewer than I<COUNT> flow records.  By
default, all bins are printed.

=item B<--max-records>=I<COUNT>

Disable printing of bins with more than I<COUNT> flow records.  By
default, all bins are printed.

=item B<--skip-zeroes>

Disable printing of bins with no traffic.  By default, all bins are
printed.

=item B<--no-titles>

Turn off column titles.  By default, titles are printed.

=item B<--no-columns>

Disable fixed-width columnar output.

=item B<--column-separator>=I<C>

Use specified character between columns and after the final column.
When this switch is not specified, the default of 'B<|>' is used.

=item B<--no-final-delimiter>

Do not print the column separator after the final column.  Normally a
delimiter is printed.

=item B<--delimited>

=item B<--delimited>=I<C>

Run as if B<--no-columns> B<--no-final-delimiter> B<--column-sep>=I<C>
had been specified.  That is, disable fixed-width columnar output; if
character I<C> is provided, it is used as the delimiter between
columns instead of the default 'B<|>'.

=item B<--print-filenames>

Print to the standard error the names of input files as they are
opened.

=item B<--copy-input>=I<PATH>

Copy all binary SiLK Flow records read as input to the specified file
or named pipe.  I<PATH> may be C<stdout> or C<-> to write flows to the
standard output as long as the B<--output-path> switch is specified to
redirect B<rwtotal>'s textual output to a different location.

=item B<--output-path>=I<PATH>

Write the textual output to I<PATH>, where I<PATH> is a filename, a
named pipe, the keyword C<stderr> to write the output to the standard
error, or the keyword C<stdout> or C<-> to write the output to the
standard output (and bypass the paging program).  If I<PATH> names an
existing file, B<rwtotal> exits with an error unless the SILK_CLOBBER
environment variable is set, in which case I<PATH> is overwritten.  If
this switch is not given, the output is either sent to the pager or
written to the standard output.

=item B<--pager>=I<PAGER_PROG>

When output is to a terminal, invoke the program I<PAGER_PROG> to view
the output one screen full at a time.  This switch overrides the
SILK_PAGER environment variable, which in turn overrides the PAGER
variable.  If the B<--output-path> switch is given or if the value of
the pager is determined to be the empty string, no paging is performed
and all output is written to the terminal.

=item B<--site-config-file>=I<FILENAME>

Read the SiLK site configuration from the named file I<FILENAME>.
When this switch is not provided, B<rwtotal> searches for the site
configuration file in the locations specified in the L</FILES>
section.

=item B<--xargs>

=item B<--xargs>=I<FILENAME>

Read the names of the input files from I<FILENAME> or from the
standard input if I<FILENAME> is not provided.  The input is expected
to have one filename per line.  B<rwtotal> opens each named file in
turn and reads records from it as if the filenames had been listed on
the command line.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following examples, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

=head2 Group by the protocol

Group all incoming data for the first hour of March 1, 2003 by
protocol.

 $ rwfilter --start-date=2003/03/01:00 --end-date=2003/03/01:00 \
        --all-destination=stdout                                \
   | rwtotal --proto --skip-zero
    protocol|        Records|               Bytes|          Packets|
           1|          15622|            10695328|           147084|
           6|         330726|        120536195111|        144254362|
          17|         155528|            24500079|           155528|

To get the same result with B<rwuniq(1)>, use:

 $ rwfilter ... --pass=stdout                                   \
   | rwuniq --fields=proto --values=records,bytes,packets       \
        --sort-output
 pro|   Records|               Bytes|        Packets|
   1|     15622|            10695328|         147084|
   6|    330726|        120536195111|      144254362|
  17|    155528|            24500079|         155528|

=head2 Group by the source Class A addresses

 $ rwfilter --start-date=2003/03/01:00 --end-date=2003/03/01:00 \
        --all-destination=stdout                                \
   | rwtotal --sip-first-8 --skip-zero
  sIP_First8|        Records|               Bytes|          Packets|
          10|         173164|         59950837766|         72201390|
         172|          77764|            17553593|            77764|
         192|         250948|         60602999159|         72277820|

Use B<rwnetmask(1)> and B<rwuniq(1)> to get a similar result:

 $ rwfilter ... --pass=stdout                                   \
   | rwnetmask --4sip-prefix=8                                  \
   | rwuniq --fields=sip --values=records,bytes,packets         \
        --sort-output --ipv6-policy=ignore
             sIP|   Records|               Bytes|        Packets|
        10.0.0.0|    173164|         59950837766|       72201390|
       172.0.0.0|     77764|            17553593|          77764|
       192.0.0.0|    250948|         60602999159|       72277820|

=head2 Group by the final IPv4 octet

 $ rwfilter --start-date=2003/03/01:00 --end-date=2003/03/01:00     \
        --proto=6 --pass=stdout --daddress=192.168.x.x              \
   | rwtotal --dip-last-16 --skip-zero | head -5
  dIP_Last16|        Records|               Bytes|          Packets|
       0. 38|              6|             4862678|             4016|
       1. 14|              1|               32844|              452|
      18.146|              1|                4226|               12|
      21.  4|              6|             5462032|             4521|

One way to accomplish this with B<rwuniq> is to create a new field
using PySiLK (see B<pysilk(3)>) and the PySiLK plug-in capability (see
B<silkpython(3)>.  The invocation is:

 $ rwfilter ... --pass=stdout                                      \
   | rwuniq --python=/tmp/dip16.py --fields=dip-last-16            \
        --values=flows,bytes,packets --sort-output | head -5
     dip-last-16|   Records|               Bytes|        Packets|
        0.0.0.38|         6|             4862678|           4016|
        0.0.1.14|         1|               32844|            452|
      0.0.18.146|         1|                4226|             12|
        0.0.21.4|         6|             5462032|           4521|

where the definition of the C<dip-last-16> field is given in the file
F<tmp/dip16.py>:

 import silk
 mask = silk.IPAddr("0.0.255.255")
 def mask_dip(r):
     return r.dip.mask(mask)

 register_ipv4_field("dip-last-16", mask_dip)


=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_PAGER

When set to a non-empty string, B<rwtotal> automatically invokes this
program to display its output a screen at a time.  If set to an empty
string, B<rwtotal> does not automatically page its output.

=item PAGER

When set and SILK_PAGER is not set, B<rwtotal> automatically invokes
this program to display its output a screen at a time.

=item SILK_CLOBBER

The SiLK tools normally refuse to overwrite existing files.  Setting
SILK_CLOBBER to a non-empty value removes this restriction.

=item SILK_CONFIG_FILE

This environment variable is used as the value for the
B<--site-config-file> when that switch is not provided.

=item SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR

This environment variable specifies the root directory of data
repository.  As described in the L</FILES> section, B<rwtotal> may
use this environment variable when searching for the SiLK site
configuration file.

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the install tree.  When
searching for configuration files, B<rwtotal> may use this environment
variable.  See the L</FILES> section for details.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<${SILK_CONFIG_FILE}>

=item F<${SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR}/silk.conf>

=item F<@SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR@/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk.conf>

Possible locations for the SiLK site configuration file which are
checked when the B<--site-config-file> switch is not provided.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwaddrcount(1)>, B<rwnetmask(1)>, B<rwstats(1)>, B<rwuniq(1)>,
B<pysilk(3)>, B<silkpython(3)>, B<silk(7)>

=head1 BUGS

B<rwtotal> replicates some functionality in B<rwuniq(1)> (most notably
when B<rwuniq> checks by port or protocol), but the implementations
differ: B<rwtotal> uses an array instead of a hash-table, so access is
faster, the output is always sorted, and the output includes keys with
a value of zero.  The use of an array prevents B<rwtotal> from using
the complete IP address the way B<rwuniq> does, but it also ensures
that B<rwtotal> will not run out of memory.

When used in an IPv6 environment, B<rwtotal> will process every record
as long as the IP address is not part of the key.  When aggregating by
the IP address, B<rwtotal> converts IPv6 flow records that contain
addresses in the ::ffff:0:0/96 prefix to IPv4 and processes them.
IPv6 records having addresses outside of that prefix are silently
ignored.  B<rwtotal> will not be modified to support IPv6 addresses;
instead, users should use B<rwuniq(1)> (maybe combined with
B<rwnetmask(1)>).

B<rwtotal> is also similar to B<rwaddrcount(1)> and B<rwstats(1)>.

=cut

$SiLK: rwtotal.pod 57cd46fed37f 2017-03-13 21:54:02Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
