=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwdedupe> - Eliminate duplicate SiLK Flow records

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwdedupe [--ignore-fields=FIELDS] [--packets-delta=NUM]
        [--bytes-delta=NUM] [--stime-delta=NUM] [--duration-delta=NUM]
        [--temp-directory=DIR_PATH] [--buffer-size=SIZE]
        [--note-add=TEXT] [--note-file-add=FILE]
        [--compression-method=COMP_METHOD] [--print-filenames]
        [--output-path=PATH] [--site-config-file=FILENAME]
        {[--xargs] | [--xargs=FILENAME] | [FILE [FILE ...]]}

  rwdedupe --help

  rwdedupe --help-fields

  rwdedupe --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwdedupe> reads SiLK Flow records from one or more input sources.
Records that appear in the input file(s) multiple times will only
appear in the output stream once; that is, duplicate records are not
written to the output.  The SiLK Flows are written to the file
specified by the B<--output-path> switch or to the standard output
when the B<--output-path> switch is not provided and the standard
output is not connected to a terminal.

B<Note:> As part of its processing, B<rwdedupe> re-orders the
records before writing them.

B<rwdedupe> reads SiLK Flow records from the files named on the
command line or from the standard input when no file names are
specified and B<--xargs> is not present.  To read the standard input
in addition to the named files, use C<-> or C<stdin> as a file name.
If an input file name ends in C<.gz>, the file is uncompressed as it
is read.  When the B<--xargs> switch is provided, B<rwdedupe> reads
the names of the files to process from the named text file or from the
standard input if no file name argument is provided to the switch.
The input to B<--xargs> must contain one file name per line.

By default, B<rwdedupe> will consider one record to be a duplicate of
another when I<all> the fields in the records match exactly.  From
another point on view, any difference in two records results in both
records appearing in the output.  Note that I<all> means every field
that exists on a SiLK Flow record.  The complete list of fields is
specified in the description of B<--ignore-fields> in the L</OPTIONS>
section below.

To have B<rwdedupe> ignore fields in the comparison, specify those
fields in the B<--ignore-fields> switch.  When
B<--ignore-fields>=I<FIELDS> is specified, a record is considered a
duplicate of another if all fields I<except> those in I<FIELDS> match
exactly.  B<rwdedupe> will treat I<FIELDS> as being identical across
all records.  Put another way, if the only difference between two
records is in the I<FIELDS> fields, only one of those records will be
written to the output.

The B<--packets-delta>, B<--bytes-delta>, B<--stime-delta> and
B<--duration-delta> switches allow for "fuzziness" in the input.  For
example, if B<--stime-delta>=I<NUM> is specified and the only
difference between two records is in the sTime fields, and the fields
are within I<NUM> milliseconds of each other, only one record will be
written to the output.

During its processing, B<rwdedupe> will try to allocate a large (near
2GB) in-memory array to hold the records.  (You may use the
B<--buffer-size> switch to change this maximum buffer size.)  If more
records are read than will fit into memory, the in-core records are
temporarily stored on disk as described by the B<--temp-directory>
switch.  When all records have been read, the on-disk files are merged
to produce the output.

By default, the temporary files are stored in the F</tmp> directory.
Because of the sizes of the temporary files, it is strongly
recommended that F</tmp> I<not> be used as the temporary directory,
and B<rwdedupe> will print a warning when F</tmp> is used.  To modify
the temporary directory used by B<rwdedupe>, provide the
B<--temp-directory> switch, set the SILK_TMPDIR environment variable,
or set the TMPDIR environment variable.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or B<--arg> I<param>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=over 4

=item B<--ignore-fields>=I<FIELDS>

Ignore the fields listed in I<FIELDS> when determining if two flow
records are identical; that is, treat I<FIELDS> as being identical
across all flows.  By default, all fields are treated as significant.

I<FIELDS> is a comma separated list of field-names, field-integers,
and ranges of field-integers; a range is specified by separating the
start and end of the range with a hyphen (B<->).  Field-names are
case-insensitive.  Example:

 --ignore-fields=stime,12-15

The list of supported fields are:

=over 4

=item sIP,1

source IP address

=item dIP,2

destination IP address

=item sPort,3

source port for TCP and UDP, or equivalent

=item dPort,4

destination port for TCP and UDP, or equivalent

=item protocol,5

IP protocol

=item packets,pkts,6

packet count

=item bytes,7

byte count

=item flags,8

bit-wise OR of TCP flags over all packets

=item sTime,9

starting time of flow (milliseconds resolution)

=item duration,10

duration of flow (milliseconds resolution)

=item sensor,12

name or ID of sensor at the collection point

=item in,13

router SNMP input interface or vlanId if packing tools were
configured to capture it (see B<sensor.conf(5)>)

=item out,14

router SNMP output interface or postVlanId

=item nhIP,15

router next hop IP

=item class,20,type,21

class and type of sensor at the collection point (represented
internally by a single value)

=item initialFlags,26

TCP flags on first packet in the flow

=item sessionFlags,27

bit-wise OR of TCP flags over all packets except the first in the flow

=item attributes,28

flow attributes set by flow generator

=item application,29

guess as to the content of the flow.  Some software that generates flow
records from packet data, such as B<yaf(1)>, will inspect the contents
of the packets that make up a flow and use traffic signatures to label
the content of the flow.  SiLK calls this label the I<application>;
B<yaf> refers to it as the I<appLabel>.  The application is the port
number that is traditionally used for that type of traffic (see the
F</etc/services> file on most UNIX systems).  For example, traffic
that the flow generator recognizes as FTP will have a value of 21,
even if that traffic is being routed through the standard HTTP/web
S<port (80)>.

=back

=for comment
##########################################################################
# Whew!  We've finally reached the end of the --fields help

=item B<--packets-delta>=I<NUM>

Treat the packets field on two records as being the same if the values
differ by I<NUM> packets or less.  If not specified, the default is 0.

=item B<--bytes-delta>=I<NUM>

Treat the bytes field on two records as being the same if the values
differ by I<NUM> bytes or less.  If not specified, the default is 0.

=item B<--stime-delta>=I<NUM>

Treat the start-time field on two records as being the same if the
values differ by I<NUM> milliseconds or less.  If not specified, the
default is 0.

=item B<--duration-delta>=I<NUM>

Treat the duration field on two records as being the same if the
values differ by I<NUM> milliseconds or less.  If not specified, the
default is 0.

=item B<--temp-directory>=I<DIR_PATH>

Specify the name of the directory in which to store data files
temporarily when more records have been read that will fit into RAM.
This switch overrides the directory specified in the SILK_TMPDIR
environment variable, which overrides the directory specified in the
TMPDIR variable, which overrides the default, F</tmp>.

=item B<--buffer-size>=I<SIZE>

Set the maximum size of the buffer to use for holding the records, in
bytes.  A larger buffer means fewer temporary files need to be
created, reducing the I/O wait times.  The default maximum for this
buffer is near 2GB.  The I<SIZE> may be given as an ordinary integer,
or as a real number followed by a suffix C<K>, C<M> or C<G>, which
represents the numerical value multiplied by 1,024 (kilo), 1,048,576
(mega), and 1,073,741,824 (giga), respectively.  For example, 1.5K
represents 1,536 bytes, or one and one-half kilobytes.  (This value
does B<not> represent the absolute maximum amount of RAM that
B<rwdedupe> will allocate, since additional buffers will be allocated
for reading the input and writing the output.)

=item B<--output-path>=I<PATH>

Write the binary SiLK Flow records to I<PATH>, where I<PATH> is a
filename, a named pipe, the keyword C<stderr> to write the output to
the standard error, or the keyword C<stdout> or C<-> to write the
output to the standard output.  If I<PATH> names an existing file,
B<rwdedupe> exits with an error unless the SILK_CLOBBER environment
variable is set, in which case I<PATH> is overwritten.  If this switch
is not given, the output is written to the standard output.
Attempting to write the binary output to a terminal causes B<rwdedupe>
to exit with an error.

=item B<--note-add>=I<TEXT>

Add the specified I<TEXT> to the header of the output file as an
annotation.  This switch may be repeated to add multiple annotations
to a file.  To view the annotations, use the B<rwfileinfo(1)> tool.

=item B<--note-file-add>=I<FILENAME>

Open I<FILENAME> and add the contents of that file to the header of
the output file as an annotation.    This switch may be repeated to
add multiple annotations.  Currently the application makes no effort
to ensure that I<FILENAME> contains text; be careful that you do not
attempt to add a SiLK data file as an annotation.

=item B<--compression-method>=I<COMP_METHOD>

Specify the compression library to use when writing output files.  If
this switch is not given, the value in the SILK_COMPRESSION_METHOD
environment variable is used if the value names an available
compression method.  When no compression method is specified,
output to the standard output or to named pipes is not compressed, and
output to files is compressed using the default chosen when SiLK was
compiled.  The valid values for I<COMP_METHOD> are determined by which
external libraries were found when SiLK was compiled.  To see the
available compression methods and the default method, use the
B<--help> or B<--version> switch.  SiLK can support the following
I<COMP_METHOD> values when the required libraries are available.

=over 4

=item none

Do not compress the output using an external library.

=item zlib

Use the B<zlib(3)> library for compressing the output, and always
compress the output regardless of the destination.  Using zlib
produces the smallest output files at the cost of speed.

=item lzo1x

Use the I<lzo1x> algorithm from the LZO real time compression library
for compression, and always compress the output regardless of the
destination.  This compression provides good compression with less
memory and CPU overhead.

=item snappy

Use the I<snappy> library for compression, and always compress the
output regardless of the destination.  This compression provides good
compression with less memory and CPU overhead.  I<Since SiLK 3.13.0.>

=item best

Use lzo1x if available, otherwise use snappy if available, otherwise
use zlib if available.  Only compress the output when writing to a
file.

=back

=item B<--print-filenames>

Print to the standard error the names of input files as they are
opened.

=item B<--site-config-file>=I<FILENAME>

Read the SiLK site configuration from the named file I<FILENAME>.
When this switch is not provided, B<rwdedupe> searches for the site
configuration file in the locations specified in the L</FILES>
section.

=item B<--xargs>

=item B<--xargs>=I<FILENAME>

Read the names of the input files from I<FILENAME> or from the
standard input if I<FILENAME> is not provided.  The input is expected
to have one filename per line.  B<rwdedupe> opens each named file in
turn and reads records from it as if the filenames had been listed on
the command line.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--help-fields>

Print the description and alias(es) of each field and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 LIMITATIONS

When the temporary files and the final output are stored on the same
file volume, B<rwdedupe> will require approximately twice as much free
disk space as the size of input data.

When the temporary files and the final output are on different
volumes, B<rwdedupe> will require between 1 and 1.5 times as much free
space on the temporary volume as the size of the input data.

=head1 EXAMPLE

In the following examples, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.

=for comment
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

Suppose you have made several B<rwfilter(1)> runs to find interesting
traffic:

 $ rwfilter --start-date=2008/02/04 ... --pass=data1.rw
 $ rwfilter --start-date=2008/02/04 ... --pass=data2.rw
 $ rwfilter --start-date=2008/02/04 ... --pass=data3.rw
 $ rwfilter --start-date=2008/02/04 ... --pass=data4.rw

You now want to merge that traffic into a single output file, but you
want to ensure that any records appearing in multiple output files are
only counted once.  You can use B<rwdedupe> to merge the output files
to a single file, F<data.rw>:

 $ rwdedupe data1.rw data2.rw data3.rw data4.rw --output=data.rw


=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_TMPDIR

When set and B<--temp-directory> is not specified, B<rwdedupe> writes
the temporary files it creates to this directory.  SILK_TMPDIR
overrides the value of TMPDIR.

=item TMPDIR

When set and SILK_TMPDIR is not set, B<rwdedupe> writes the temporary
files it creates to this directory.

=item SILK_CLOBBER

The SiLK tools normally refuse to overwrite existing files.  Setting
SILK_CLOBBER to a non-empty value removes this restriction.

=item SILK_COMPRESSION_METHOD

This environment variable is used as the value for
B<--compression-method> when that switch is not provided.  I<Since
SiLK 3.13.0.>

=item SILK_CONFIG_FILE

This environment variable is used as the value for the
B<--site-config-file> when that switch is not provided.

=item SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR

This environment variable specifies the root directory of data
repository.  As described in the L</FILES> section, B<rwdedupe> may
use this environment variable when searching for the SiLK site
configuration file.

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the install tree.  When
searching for configuration files, B<rwdedupe> may use this
environment variable.  See the L</FILES> section for details.

=item SILK_TEMPFILE_DEBUG

When set to 1, B<rwdedupe> prints debugging messages to the standard
error as it creates, re-opens, and removes temporary files.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<${SILK_CONFIG_FILE}>

=item F<${SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR}/silk.conf>

=item F<@SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR@/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk.conf>

Possible locations for the SiLK site configuration file which are
checked when the B<--site-config-file> switch is not provided.

=item F<${SILK_TMPDIR}/>

=item F<${TMPDIR}/>

=item F</tmp/>

Directory in which to create temporary files.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwfilter(1)>, B<rwfileinfo(1)>, B<sensor.conf(5)>, B<silk(7)>,
B<yaf(1)>, B<zlib(3)>

=cut

$SiLK: rwdedupe.pod 57cd46fed37f 2017-03-13 21:54:02Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
