=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwfglob> - Print files that B<rwfilter>'s File Selection switches will access

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwfglob { [--class=CLASS] [--type={all | TYPE[,TYPE ...]}]
            | [--flowtypes=CLASS/TYPE[,CLASS/TYPE ...]] }
        [--sensors=SENSOR[,SENSOR ...]]
        [--start-date=YYYY/MM/DD[:HH] [--end-date=YYYY/MM/DD[:HH]]]
        [--data-rootdir=ROOT_DIRECTORY] [--site-config-file=FILENAME]
        [--print-missing-files] [--no-block-check] [--no-file-names]
        [--no-summary]

  rwfglob [--data-rootdir=ROOT_DIRECTORY]
        [--site-config-file=FILENAME] --help

  rwfglob --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwfglob> accepts the normal File Selection options of B<rwfilter(1)>
and prints, to the standard output, the names of the files that would
normally be accessed, one file name per line.  At the end, a summary
is printed, to the standard output, of the number of files that
B<rwfglob> found.  To suppress the printing of the file names and/or
the summary, specify the B<--no-file-names> and/or B<--no-summary>
switches, respectively.

By default, B<rwfglob> only prints the names of files that exist.
When the B<--print-missing-files> switch is provided, B<rwfglob>
prints, to the standard error, the names of files that it did not
find, one file name per line, preceded by the text S<'Missing '>.

For each file it finds, B<rwfglob> will check the size of the file and
the number of blocks allocated to the file.  If the block count is
zero but the file size is non-zero, B<rwfglob> treats the file as
existing but as residing I<on tape>.  The names of these files are
printed to the standard output, but each name is preceded by the text
S<'  \t*** ON_TAPE ***'> where S<'\t'> represents a tab character.
The summary line will include the number of files that B<rwfglob>
believes are on tape.  To suppress this check and to remove the count
from the summary line, use the B<--no-block-check> switch.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or B<--arg> I<param>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=head2 Selection Switches

This set of switches are the same as those used by B<rwfilter> to
select the files to process.  At least one of these switches must be
provided.

=over 4

=item B<--class>=I<CLASS>

The B<--class> switch is used to specify a group of files to print.
Only a single class may be selected with the B<--class> switch; for
multiple classes, use the B<--flowtypes> switch.  Classes are defined
in the B<silk.conf(5)> site configuration file.  If the B<--class>
option is not given, the default-class as specified in F<silk.conf> is
used.  To see the available classes and the default class, either
examine the output from B<rwfglob --help> or invoke B<rwsiteinfo(1)>
with the switch B<--fields=class,default-class>.

=item B<--type>={C<all> | I<TYPE>[,I<TYPE>]}

The B<--type> predicate further specifies data within the selected
I<CLASS> by listing the I<TYPE>s of traffic to process.  The switch
takes a comma-separated list of types or the keyword C<all> which
specifies all types for the specified I<CLASS>.  Types are defined in
F<silk.conf>, they typically refer to the direction of the flow, and
they may vary by class.  When the B<--type> switch is not specified, a
list of default types is used.  The default-type list is determined by
the value of I<CLASS>, and the default types generally include only
incoming traffic.  To see the available types and the default types
for each class, examine the B<--help> output of B<rwfglob> or run
B<rwsiteinfo> with B<--fields=class,type,default-type>.

=item B<--flowtypes>=I<CLASS>/I<TYPE>[,I<CLASS>/I<TYPE> ...]

The B<--flowtypes> predicate provides an alternate way to specify
class/type pairs.  The B<--flowtypes> switch allows a single
B<rwfglob> invocation to print data from multiple classes.  The
keyword C<all> may be used for the I<CLASS> and/or I<TYPE> to select
all classes and/or types.

=item B<--sensors>=I<SENSOR>[,I<SENSOR> ...]

The B<--sensor> switch is used to select data from specific sensors.
The parameter is a comma separated list of sensor names, sensor IDs
(integers), and/or ranges of sensor IDs.  Sensors are defined in the
B<silk.conf(5)> site configuration file, and the B<rwsiteinfo(1)> command
can be used to print a mapping of sensor names to IDs and classes.
When the B<--sensor> switch is not specified, the default is to use
all sensors which are valid for the specified class(es).

=item B<--start-date>=I<YYYY/MM/DD[:HH]>

=item B<--end-date>=I<YYYY/MM/DD[:HH]>

The date predicates indicate which days and hours to consider when
creating the list of files.  The dates may be expressed as seconds
since the UNIX epoch or in C<YYYY/MM/DD[:HH]> format, where the hour
is optional.  A C<T> may be used in place of the C<:> to separate the
day and hour.  Whether the C<YYYY/MM/DD[:HH]> strings represent times
in UTC or the local timezone depend on how SiLK was compiled.  To
determine how your version of SiLK was compiled, see the C<Timezone
support> setting in the output from B<rwfglob --version>.

When times are expressed in C<YYYY/MM/DD[:HH]> format:

=over 4

=item *

When both B<--start-date> and B<--end-date> are specified to hour
precision, all hours within that time range are processed.

=item *

When B<--start-date> is specified to day precision, the hour specified
in B<--end-date> (if any) is ignored, and files for all dates between
midnight on B<start-date> and 23:59 on B<end-date> are processed.

=item *

When B<--start-date> is specified to hour precision and B<--end-date>
is specified to day precision, the hour of the start-date is used as
the hour for the end-date.

=item *

When B<--end-date> is not specified and B<--start-date> is specified
to day precision, files for that complete day are processed.

=item *

When B<--end-date> is not specified and B<--start-date> is specified
to hour precision, files for that single hour are processed.

=back

When at least one time is expressed as seconds since the UNIX epoch:

=over 4

=item *

When B<--end-date> is specified in epoch seconds, the given
B<--start-date> and B<--end-date> are considered to be in hour
precision.

=item *

When B<--start-date> is specified in epoch seconds and B<--end-date>
is specified in C<YYYY/MM/DD[:HH]> format, the start-date is
considered to be in day precision if it divisible by 86400, and hour
precision otherwise.

=item *

When B<--start-date> is specified in epoch seconds and B<--end-date>
is not given, the start-date is considered to be in hour-precision.

=back

When neither B<--start-date> nor B<--end-date> is given, B<rwfglob>
prints all files for the current day.

It is an error to specify B<--end-date> without specifying
B<--start-date>.

=item B<--data-rootdir>=I<ROOT_DIRECTORY>

Tell B<rwfglob> to use I<ROOT_DIRECTORY> as the root of the data
repository, which overrides the location given in the
SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR environment variable, which in turn overrides the
location that was compiled into B<rwfglob> (@SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR@).

=item B<--site-config-file>=I<FILENAME>

Read the SiLK site configuration from the named file I<FILENAME>.
When this switch is not provided, B<rwfglob> searches for the site
configuration file in the locations specified in the L</FILES>
section.

=item B<--print-missing-files>

This option prints to the standard error the names of the files that
B<rwfglob> expected to find but did not.  The file names are preceded
by the text S<'Missing '>; each file name appears on a separate line.
This switch is useful for debugging, but the list of files it produces
can be misleading.  For example, suppose there is a decommissioned
sensor that still appears in the F<silk.conf> file; B<rwfglob>
considers these data files as I<missing> even though their absence is
expected.  Use the output from this switch judiciously.

=back

=head2 Application Switches

=over 4

=item B<--no-block-check>

This option instructs B<rwfglob> not to check whether the file exists
I<on tape> by checking whether the number of blocks allocated to the
file is zero.  By default, B<rwfglob> precedes a file name that has a
block count of 0 with the text S<'  \t*** ON_TAPE ***'>.

=item B<--no-file-names>

This option instructs B<rwfglob> not to print the names of the files
that it successfully finds.  By default, B<rwfglob> prints the names
of the files it finds and a summary line showing the number of files
it found.  When both this switch and B<--print-missing-files> are
specified, B<rwfglob> prints only the names of missing files (and the
summary).

=item B<--no-summary>

This option instructs B<rwfglob> not to print the summary line (that
is, the line that shows the number of files found).  By default,
B<rwfglob> prints the names of the files it finds and a summary line
showing the number of files it found.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.  The available classes and types
will be included in output; you may specify a different root directory
or site configuration file before B<--help> to see the classes and
types available for that site.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following examples, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.

=for comment
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

Looking at a day on a single sensor:

 $ rwfglob --start=2003/10/11 --sensor=2
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.23
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.22
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.21
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.20
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.19
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.18
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.17
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.16
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.15
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.14
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.13
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.12
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.11
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.10
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.09
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.08
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.07
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.06
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.05
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.04
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.03
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.02
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.01
 /data/in/2003/10/11/in-GAMMA_20031011.00
 globbed 24 files; 0 on tape

If you only want the summary, specify B<--no-file-names>

 $ rwfglob --start-date=2003/10/11 --sensor=2 --no-file-names
 globbed 24 files; 0 on tape

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_CONFIG_FILE

This environment variable is used as the value for the
B<--site-config-file> when that switch is not provided.

=item SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR

This environment variable specifies the root directory of data
repository.  This value overrides the compiled-in value, and
B<rwfglob> uses it unless the B<--data-rootdir> switch is specified.
In addition, B<rwfglob> may use this value when searching for the SiLK
site configuration file.  See the L</FILES> section for details.

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the install tree.  When
searching for configuration files, B<rwfglob> may use this
environment variable.  See the L</FILES> section for details.

=item TZ

When a SiLK installation is built to use the local timezone (to
determine if this is the case, check the C<Timezone support> value in
the output from B<rwfglob --version>), the value of the TZ environment
variable determines the timezone in which B<rwfglob> parses
timestamps.  (The date on the filenames that B<rwfglob> returns are
always in UTC.)  If the TZ environment variable is not set, the
default timezone is used.  Setting TZ to 0 or the empty string causes
timestamps to be parsed as UTC.  The value of the TZ environment
variable is ignored when the SiLK installation uses utc.  For system
information on the TZ variable, see B<tzset(3)> or B<environ(7)>.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<${SILK_CONFIG_FILE}>

=item F<ROOT_DIRECTORY/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk.conf>

Possible locations for the SiLK site configuration file which are
checked when the B<--site-config-file> switch is not provided, where
F<ROOT_DIRECTORY/> is the directory B<rwfglob> is using as the root
of the data repository.

=item F<${SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR}/>

=item F<@SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR@/>

Locations for the root directory of the data repository when the
B<--data-rootdir> switch is not specified.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwfilter(1)>, B<rwsiteinfo(1)>, B<silk.conf(5)>, B<silk(7)>,
B<tzset(3)>, B<environ(7)>

=head1 BUGS

The B<--print-missing-files> option needs to be smarter about what
files are really missing.

The output of B<--print-missing-files> goes to the standard error,
while all other output goes to the standard output.  To redirect the
output of B<--print-missing-files> to the standard output, use the
following in a Bourne-compatible shell:

 $ rwfglob --print-missing-files ... 2>&1

The block count check is of unknown portability across different
tape-farm systems.

=cut

$SiLK: rwfglob.pod 7c452d1f409f 2016-09-23 21:00:08Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
